Police had to use teargas to keep protesters at bay as they escorted the crane to its destination in Lion Street. Development group Blok on Tuesday took out an interdict against the residents who said the developer is destroying Bo-Kaap’s heritage. “We are here to protest against this development and uphold our constitutional right to protest,” Jackie Toking said. This was despite residents being served an interdict not to protest. A court interdict was granted in July preventing community members from doing anything perceived to be damaging to the development. About 50 residents gathered outside the development to protest. Police also lobbed stun grenades to disperse protesters. “So far, four suspects aged between 22 and 43 were arrested for public violence. Once they are charged they will be appearing in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court,” police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said. The public order police and many of the protesters clashed following the crane’s on-and-off attempts to gain access to the area. “We are showing today that no interdict can overrule that. We don’t want the crane here and if the crane comes again we will be here,” Toking said. Another resident, Sumaya Ramjam, said: “We want our area to stay the same, we don’t want anymore high-rise buildings. No one must talk on behalf of us we are the residents of this area and we are fed up with this.” Bo-Kaap Civic Association vice-chairman Fowzia Achmat said: “We want to take an interdict against the City because they want to get the crane in and the community decided to resist.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Blok developers are developing a pilot inclusionary-housing project, FORTY ON L on Lion Street in Bo-Kaap. Spokesperson for Blok, Colin Wardle, said: “We are disappointed and concerned by the violence and appreciate the co-operation of our neighbours and other stakeholders within the community who we will continue to communicate and engage with.” Wardle said a small self-interested group has unlawfully interfered with previous deliveries and there is currently an interdict in place to prevent any further interference by this group, not the entire community as alleged. “As per the court order, law enforcement was informed to ensure the safety of hundreds of staff working on the construction site,” he said. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus