Sizwe Biyela, 26, and Nkosinathi Khumalo, 31, made a brief appearance and were hastily ushered back to court cells before proceedings were adjourned. The state alleged that the murder was premeditated and asked the court to place the two suspects in custody at the Sea Point police cells as there was reason to believe they may "come to harm" if kept at Pollsmoor prison. The duo face charges of murder, attempted murder, as well as the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. Mihalik was shot dead on Tuesday outside Reddam House, a primary school on the Atlantic seaboard, where he was dropping off his son. He was shot in the head while in his vehicle, by an unidentified suspect who fled in a metallic grey VW Polo. His son also sustained injuries, but is reportedly in a stable condition.   The last case Mihalik worked on was at the Western Cape High Court, where he was representing Nkosinathi Cakasayo, a taxi boss and alleged member of the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata), in a double murder case. Last Thursday, the case was postponed to November 26 for Mihalik and his colleagues in the defence to receive financial instructions from Cakasayo and his co-accused. It is believed the accused had financial challenges, which led the court to order Mihalik and the other legal representatives to return on the date to confirm financial instructions. Mihalik’s colleague, Daniel Witz, said the advocate had been involved in other pending cases, but he was unable to give details at this stage. Taxi unions distanced themselves from the murder. Cata spokesperson Andile Seyamo said the association was not aware of, and had no links to, Mihalik’s murder. The Congress of Democratic Taxi Associations spokesperson, Andile Kanyi, said his association also had no information pertaining to the matter. Cakasayo is on trial with his co-accused and brothers, Andile Cakasayo and Melikhaya Cakasayo, with Nyameko Daki. It is alleged that the accused were involved in the murder of two Cata members, Celani Twazi and Bongani Mququ, who were gunned down at the Cata-Kikki Murray branch, at Nyanga Taxi Terminus, on July 25, 2013. It is the State’s case that Mquqo was at loggerheads with Andile, and they were going to meet at the terminus to make peace. During bail hearings at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court, an investigating officer in the matter testified that Cakasayo was allegedly bribing the police to destroy evidence. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus