Cape Town - In a major victory for District Six claimants, the Western Cape High Court has ordered the department of rural development and land reform to provide a layout plan for the redevelopment of the area Judge Jody Kollapen gave the department until February next year to return to court with a clear plan. The judge said it was important that the department got the clock to start running now. “This is a landmark judgment. What is important is how soon they can provide this plan and how soon people can move to District Six,” said District Six Working Committee chairperson Shahied Ajam. He said the committee was not yet done with the department. “We are still seeking relief on two major issues - of the government being in breach of its constitutional obligations and for violating the constitutional rights of the restitution claimants.” The advocate for the committee said the department broke its constitutional obligation. Geoff Budlender, the committee’s legal representative, said: “We say it may well be that the government no longer has a constitutional obligation to the residents of District Six. It may be that the cause could be that there is no constitutional offence. This is unacceptable.” Budlender also slammed the department for not providing residents with a clear and transparent plan on what it planned to do with the area. “There is no plan and that is a fact. We are told (by the state) that there is an holistic plan, but no such information has been provided.” The department, however, argued that it was not in breach of its constitutional obligations, but admitted that restitution had been slow. Shaun Rosenberg, who represented the department, said: “Our submission is that we accept an unfilled obligation. We submit that the court should grant a structural interdict. It’s clear that the restitution has not been made to those claimants. It’s not appropriate that a declaration order be granted.” The committee filed a court application against the department’s failure to provide restitution to District Six claimants since April 1998. The application was lodged at the Land Claims Court in Randburg. The committee was seeking two forms of relief: declaratory relief, which is to provide restitution to the claimants who lodged valid claims by December 31, 1998; and mandatory relief and for the department and commission to provide details of funding and budgeting and progress reports. In court papers it is stated that the national government and the commission have an obligation in terms of the constitution to fulfil the Bill of Rights. One of those rights is the right to restitution.      Meanwhile, outside court, claimants erupted in jubilation after the court ruling, chanting, “we are back home”. Galima Mohidin, 84, said: “I was born in District Six and my biggest wish was to always go back to the area and I am so overjoyed that we are all going back where we have came from.” The chairperson of the provincial standing committee on human settlements, Matlhodi Maseko, said: “We are happy with this judgment, and now, as the committee, we will be writing to the department to request that they come and explain what will happen next. We intervened and tried to assist national government because they have failed the community.” marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus