Officers affiliated to the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) want their demands met before December 1. Samwu provincial secretary Xolisi Diniso said more than 400 officers were to be promoted from a T6 to T7 salary grade. He stressed that the promotion was more senior and came with an increase in salary. “Our action has nothing to do with salary increases. Salary increases we get once a year. In 2016 we were told that our officers would receive a promotion, but the City has been dragging its feet. The first engagements on this matter started in 2016. “On November 7 we took the matter to the city manager (Lungelo Mbandazayo). It was then given to Richard Bosman, but until now we have not heard anything.” Bosman’s job is hanging in the balance after the council resolved to appoint an investigator to investigate claims that Bosman and Robbie Robberts were in cahoots with politicians to have Robberts appointed as the City’s enforcement and policy director. In June, the Cape Argus reported that the City had forked out more than R300 000 to an employee it had overlooked for the job Robberts now holds. Annalene Marais, the deputy chief of the metro police, lodged a complaint with the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (Imatu) after she applied for the job. The union took the complaint to the Bargaining Council, which found the City had failed to give proper consideration to her CV. It contended that Marais was better qualified than Robberts. Diniso said staff would still be active on the streets, but only for eight hours a day. “We refuse to work overtime. We have been asking about these developments, but Bosman is not taking us seriously. We do understand that the community needs us. But we are also part of the community. We also need to feed families and live. With this in mind, we will still deliver all services to our communities, but we are not working overtime. The City must take our grievances seriously and stop passing the buck and using delaying tactics,” he said. “If there is no amicable solution to the issues we have raised, we will continue with our action. We have officers in Mitchells Plain, Brackenfell, Bellville and the CBD. All of these officers are qualified. Why should they not be promoted?” Diniso asked. City spokesperson Luthando Tyhali- bongo said: “Yes, the City is aware of the impending action. It is not possible to speculate on how many workers will participate, but contingency plans are in place. The City is committed to addressing workers’ concerns, and we therefore are hopeful that a resolution will be achieved at the December 6 local labour forum meeting.” jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus