Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue Service will officially welcome 114 seasonal firefighters into the fold in the coming days. The seasonal firefighter initiative is one of a number of interventions implemented each year to augment firefighting capacity over the warm summer months. They are employed specifically to assist with the combatting of vegetation fires. Hundreds of candidates vie for the seasonal firefighter positions by completing a series of physical and academic assessments. Those who are successful start their training in November before assuming operational duties from 1 December until the end of April. The four-week-long wildland firefighting course includes the basics of fighting vegetation fires, familiarisation with different types of equipment and specific use of the equipment through simulation drills, as well as the specific roles and functions of each staff member when responding to a vegetation fire. Each year, the City’s professional firefighters commit themselves to the task of supervising the seasonal staff. These supervisors sacrifice a lot of their time and effort and, without them, the programme would not be possible. The key tasks assigned to seasonal firefighters include firefighting duties under the guidance and supervision of firefighters and officers, preparing for emergency incidents, and creating fire breaks along the urban edge. "Anyone who is familiar with Cape Town will know that the hot, windy conditions that characterise summer make firefighting a difficult task indeed. That’s why we need as many bodies on the fire line as possible. Our seasonal staff are crucial to these firefighting efforts and I have every confidence that this year’s recruits will continue the good work that we’ve become accustomed to from our seasonal firefighters," said Mayco Member for Safety and Security; and Social Services, JP Smith. "I also want to tip my hat to the permanent staff who assist with the training of our seasonal recruits. It is a mammoth task and the quality of the work that is delivered year after year speaks volumes about the passion and dedication of the trainers who are tasked with getting the recruits ready to face the fire line.". Apart from the seasonal firefighters, the City will also enlist the services of two helicopters as well as a spotter plane to do aerial firefighting. While there are on average just over 200 firefighters on duty at the 30 fire stations around the metropole at any given time, the City has more than 900 professional firefighters who can be called on in the event of a major incident. It also has working relationships with a number of other agencies including Table Mountain National Park, the Volunteer Wildfire Service and surrounding municipalities. In the 2017/18 financial year:   "The bulk of these incidents occur during a four or five-month window, which is why we need extra resources like the seasonal firefighters. It really is a big ask and I appeal to the public to assist us by reporting any signs of fire as soon as possible. If you’re out and about, do not discard cigarette butts or glass and make sure that your braai or camp fire has been properly extinguished," added Smith. For a list of safety tips related to vegetation fires, click on the link here: http://www.capetown.gov.za/Family%20and%20home/safety-in-the-home/natural-disasters-and-your-home/wildfires-in-nature Fire emergencies can be reported to the Public Emergency Communication Centre by dialling 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline.    argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus