The Ex-Robben Island Political Prisoners Association of South Africa, a body representing all former political prisoners in the country, has slammed the management of the iconic island for disregarding them. “We want satisfactory answers to our questions within seven days, failing which the association calls on the minister of arts and culture to institute urgent remedial action and on the chief executive to tender his resignation,” said Mpho Masemola, national secretary of the association. He said the association had been trying to engage with the management of Robben Island for more than five years. “Robben Island is a sacred place where South Africa’s democracy was crafted. And this is an important year in which we commemorate the centenaries of the birth of giants - comrade Nelson Mandela and comrade Albertina Sisulu,” he said. Two weeks ago, the association submitted 18 questions to the management team requesting answers. These range from what steps have been taken to ensure socio-economic benefits to former political prisoners, including those who work on the island, to what steps have been taken to improve relations with the workers. They are also demanding answers as to what steps Robben Island Museum (RIM) has taken against the entities who were found guilty of price fixing and collusion by the Competition Commission. “If we feel that our questions are falling on deaf ears, the EPPA will occupy prison cells on the island and embark on a hunger strike,” Masemola said. Association task team member Bongani Jones said: “There are lots of divisions within Robben Island and that division is profit-driven. That’s why there are so many challenges. The leadership of Robben Island might have the qualifications but their focus is on getting more profit.” RIM is a public entity responsible for managing, maintaining, presenting, developing and marketing Robben Island as a national estate and World Heritage Site. It was established by the Department of Arts and Culture in 1997. The island has been in the news for all the wrong reasons, with ferries needing urgent repairs and in the dry dock for months. RIM has in the meantime asked for tenders to produce four DVDs on the lives of ex-political prisoners. The museum announced in newspapers that it was seeking to award a tender for the production of four DVDs. This while some of its ferries have not been operational and millions was spent on maintenance. Workers at the Robben Island Museum said the ferry Sikhululekile, which has been under repair for months, is having an impact on their job security. In March, RIM staff downed tools to hand in a list of grievances to the management of the World Heritage Site. Economic Opportunities MEC Beverley Schäfer said: “It’s high time for Robben Island to clean up its act and clean up their mess. They have a legacy that is very important and they need to have a high standard.” marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus