The meeting comes after the SA Policing Union (Sapu) applied for an urgent interdict to stop the police from further rolling out the anti-gang unit (AGU) because it was in breach of a labour agreement with the union. Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said the committee regards the establishment of the AGU as an important step to ensure there are strategic and appropriate operational responses to gang-related crime in specific police precincts in the country. Beukman said the aim of the briefing was to get an update from National Commissioner of Police Khehla Sitole and his management team on the establishment of the unit, “the operational capabilities, human resources and recent successes". He said the committee expects police management to ensure that specialised units have the necessary equipment and technological capability to deal with the emerging crime trends effectively. “The committee will engage the police management about the possible roll-out of the anti-gang unit to other metropolitan areas in the Republic,” Beukman said He said the meeting follows after they received calls from communities in the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Area for the deployment of the AGU in the Eastern Cape due to the upsurge of gang-related deaths and violence in the Port Elizabeth-Uitenhage area. “The recommendations of the National Development Plan are very clear that specialised units should be re-established with highly trained and professional police officers. The National Development Plan also states that specialised units should be deployed when and where they are most needed - during peak crime periods and in high-risk areas,” Beukman said. Beukman emphasised that more effort and focus should be given by police management to the administrative and structural finalisation of specialised units within the police. “The committee is of the view that the long delay in the finalisation of the approved structure of the two specialised units of the Hawks’ directorate for priority crime investigation to deal with illegal firearms and narcotics is a case in point,” he said. Beukman said: “Crime-fighting cannot be compromised by long drawn-out processes where there are no clear deadlines and milestones to finalise and sign off resource projects.” He said the committee was of the view that police management should develop a clear timetable for the reintroduction of specialised units that are linked to the Medium Term Expenditure Framework and emerging crime trends with a project plan for each new unit. National police spokesperson Vish Naidoo said if the portfolio committee asks for the briefing “we will give them exactly what they want". sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus