Here is a list of frequently asked questions about the race: Can children participate? All children under 2 run free, while children aged 2 to 12 can purchase a mini-runners ticket @ R50 per child. They do need to be registered at the time of booking and they will need to be wearing a safety wristband that can be collected at Race Pack Pick Up. How do I get my participant kit? How does that work? Details on when and where the Check-In Party will be are posted to the City’s events page during the week of the race, as well as emailed to all registered runners. Can someone else pick up my packet for me? You bet! As long as you send them with a printed or electronic copy of your confirmation email with the QR code on it! Is The Color Run safe? Thorough testing is conducted to ensure the safety of the materials and their application. Will the colour ruin clothes or running shoes? The colour does mostly wash out after the event. The sooner you wash it the better. Wear items that you wouldn’t mind getting colourful. How does the colour affect the inside of cars? Most people bring some towels for the insides of their cars, or a change of clothes just in case. Do the kilometre “Color Zones” affect runner vision? Or breathing? The colour powder used at The Color Run event is certified non-toxic and free of any heavy metals. The bright colours are a combination of cornstarch, baking soda, and FD&C dyes. As with any substance, you want to keep it out of your eyes, and our “certified” colour throwers make sure to aim low as you pass by. Some Color Runners opt to wear glasses or goggles for their eyes and use a bandana or dust mask for their mouths. Are cameras and phones safe to have in the color zones? Our race photographers are generally fine shooting from a medium distance of 50 feet, but to be totally safe we always recommend covering cameras/phones with a protective dust wrap. The Colour Run officially takes place on Saturday, November 10. A limited number of tickets are on sale, and are going fast. To enter, visit https://thecolorrun.co.za/locations/cape-town/ @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus