 Who did this? I did this! This #Steenhuisen no degree thing is too funny pic.twitter.com/81XK4mQ7s4   What we are not going to do here today is position a whole John Steenhuisen as not having the funds or opportunity to get a degree. In a country where black youth are sinking deep into debt to fulfil the societal demand for black people to have degrees, do not insult us. https://t.co/w4tTQfRarF   DA and John trying to salvage the matric situation #Steenhuisen pic.twitter.com/MO4DoubneQ   I have never valued a degree. I know brilliant people without one. Yet I had to spend years homeless, selling earphones to pay my way through Wits to get an LLB because I know you can’t progress as a black child without one. This #Steenhuisen matter is offensive to my efforts   I will donate some crayons pic.twitter.com/YiDQOIx8U1   If you've used whether or not someone has a degree to determine their competence, then follow through and apply it to people in your own camp. #Steenhuisen (also, personal opinions about degrees are irrelevant; this is about the #DA being hypocritical).   The #Steenhuisen episode could easily blow over if the DA was not an organisation which has rooted merit & capability in education because it had a leadership structure which had access to a commodity which millions of South Africans were denied due to the colour of their skin   My mom just asked "What was John #Steenhuisen doing, when we had to go to other provinces to study - all while he could drive from home, see his family everyday? While he also had funding, to finish school and do whatever degree he wanted? While some of us weren't as fortunate" pic.twitter.com/368KSBkvwg   Name one similarity between these two for 50 marks #Steenhuisen pic.twitter.com/Dsc2lLciYN  Fellow whites, cosmos above, your barrage of tweets defending Steenhuisen’s lack of qualifications is actually quite sickening to see because you KNOW it would’ve been the opposite response if an MP you dislike had been black with only a matric. You’d be fuming with outrage 😘 