The event was packed with festivities squeezed between Durban and Robert Sobukwe roads, including mini-golf, breakdancing, cricket, free bicycle rides, an interactive reptile show and a skate park to truly inspire the spirit of reclaiming the space. Open Streets founder Marcela Guerrero Casas said it’s always magical to witness the transformation of a busy street into a space for expression and encouraged more people to leave their cars behind and adopt alternatives such as bike buses to move around the city. “Once the street is shut down, it gets quiet, people come out and you hear roller skates and bicycles. It sounds clichéd, but it's like you're in a different city and that's incredible. No matter where we do it, the first moment is the same - it’s magic. “We did a bicycle bus the first time we had Open Streets in Bellville and we did it this time again. The bicycle bus concept is something we want to develop going forward as there is safety in numbers,” said Guerrero Casas. Mayor, Dan Plato implored the concept and said Open Streets is a good initiative to get people out and about while promoting informal trading by small-scale businesses. “It’s great, it's something I talk about in the City. It’s a concept from overseas where they close down the street for recreational purposes and informal trading. I hope in future we can have more trading stores. “The balance between recreational and business is what I would like to see more of. It's new for Cape Town, but if it works elsewhere, why not here,” said Plato. Organisations such as the Friends of the Arderne Gardens were out and about helping to create green spaces alongside Voortrekker Road and a Reptile Garden representatives came out with a rock monitor lizard and a mole snake to educate visitors about how to treat reptiles. Chris de Wit from Somerset West said he normally spends his Sundays quietly indoors, but decided to bring his grandchildren to Open Streets to partake in the festivities. Marco and Cindy Morgan from Observatory brought their children and skateboards to the event to promote skateboarding.   athina.may@inl.co.za Cape Argus