Now, 49 years later, Suttner, who is currently a visiting professor and strategic advisor at the University of Johannesburg’s Faculty of Humanities, will finally graduate at UCT after he was invited to resubmit his thesis. Suttner is scheduled to graduate on December 14 and this was made possible through the intervention of Dee Smythe, professor of Public Law at UCT. Smythe explained that in 1969, when Suttner submitted his thesis on legal pluralism in South Africa, he quoted Jack Simons, who was banned as a listed communist. This resulted in his supervisor instructing him to remove the quotes, but he refused and instead withdrew the dissertation. Smythe said she learnt about Suttner’s story in his book Inside Apartheid’s Prison. “In the book are a few lines referring to his registration at some point in the UCT Law Faculty. I started digging and found a CV that listed a 1969 thesis on legal pluralism in South Africa, with a note that it had not been submitted for examination. “Talking to Suttner about this, I learnt the details of why his LLM dissertation had not been submitted It seemed to me, for a whole range of reasons, that this was an injustice that we - as a faculty and university - should recognise and remedy,” said Smythe. Smythe approached her faculty, which was fully supportive of remedying what they saw as a grave injustice. Smythe said Suttner was informed but wasn’t sure if he still had a copy of his thesis. It took him about five months to find it as it had been hand-typed on manuscript paper and was delivered to UCT. “We were all very clear that the dissertation must stand on its own merits, meeting the criteria for the degree. Professor Hugh Corder and I read it and were both very impressed with the breadth and rigour of the work. We felt that it would certainly stand up to the scrutiny of examination. “In fact, it has remarkable contemporary resonance. While I do believe that it is correct to remedy what was done under the law applicable in 1969, I want to make it clear that I see it as having implications beyond my early academic career,” said Smythe. In the preface of Suttner’s work, he writes: “When Donald Molteno, QC, refused to examine a thesis that contained quotations from a banned and listed individual, Jack Simons, he acted in conformity with what he believed, in good faith, was required of him as a representative of the university. Now almost 50 years later, Suttner explained the rationale behind his decision to withdraw the thesis. “I was also a liberal at the time and my understanding of my liberalism was that I could not write anything where I claimed credit for ideas without acknowledging these. For that reason, I believed I had no choice but to withdraw the thesis”. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus