But is there space for a new political party to compete with the DA, the ANC and the EFF? According to political analyst at UWC, Ralph Mathekga, there is space for a party to capture disillusioned voters and supporters of the three main parties. “The big three don’t offer much. You have the DA with issues of racism that it cannot deal with, there is the De Lille factor. “I don’t even want to talk of the ANC because we all know the levels of corruption. The EFF has its own problems too. They got excited shouting at former President Jacob Zuma to pay back the money, but when the fingers are pointed at them they want to cry foul and retaliate. “Also on the one hand, they want economic freedom for the poor, but live lavish lifestyles with Gucci clothes,” he said. Mathekga, however, said a new party should not have the burden of the past. “We need a party with strong ideas and ideologies. Whoever wants to start a new party must pave ways for better service delivery, they should acknowledge race in a manner that recognises everyone. “Very importantly, they should attract more young people. Because of the very old system, young people feel like outcasts. But our population is getting younger and younger,” he said. Professor of political studies at the University of Stellenbosch, Amanda Gouws, said it is too late for a political party to be contesting elections. “We have four parties in this country that manage to get more than 1% of the vote. I have always proposed that we put a 2% threshold on representation in Parliament. “I think this will force the smaller parties to come together and create bigger parties. We don’t need another small party with one or two representatives in Parliament or the legislature.” Gouws said the ANC, the DA and the EFF are all a disgrace, with very little to offer South Africans. There is space for a new party, but very little time. What is bad for voters is that all the main parties are a disgrace,” she said. Former ANC MP Dr Makhosi Khoza said the a party that would be more focused on women issues could attract votes. She now with civil rights group the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse. “There is not a single party that focuses on the rights of women. We should also find a party that forces social cohesion. We cannot continue to live in this polarised society. It will, however, be difficult because structures need to be set up before the elections.” Terance Kgokolo, one of the founders of the new Renewed South African Party (RSA.P), said it advocates for real and transparent democracy that speaks for equal opportunities for all. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus