Johannes, the owner of Bunker Place, was killed on Saturday. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Johannes succumbed to various wounds inflicted on his upper back. It is alleged a computer monitor and two television sets were stolen. “A murder and house robbery case were registered for investigation. Police are still conducting an investigation.” Muizenberg Community Safety Initiative’s Henrik Daugbjerg said a group of about eight pre-booked guests arrived at the guesthouse where they started drinking and partying. “Patrick came up to them and asked them to calm it. Four people, who might be guests, had come to party, disappeared and returned later. “The German couple was told to stay in the room, a robbery ensued. The deceased’s brother, Edward Johannes, 52, said there was a lot of speculation surrounding his brother’s murder. “We have not received a formal report, so we can’t say anything at the moment and still need to do the identification of his body. “All we have heard is that a foreign (German) couple was staying here as his guests. They were in the house when the incident happened. “He was attacked in his room. They broke in through the window - it looked like it was a robbery. The bereaved brother said there was blood spatters in Johannes’s bedroom. He said the deceased was stabbed from the back and tried to get away. His body was found near the doorway. The brother said there was speculation of a noise that occurred the day before. “That’s the speculation that it could’ve been those people who came back.” He described his brother as a “pillar of strength for everyone that knew him and an exceptional human being, everyone’s go-to guy”. Tshifhiwa Tshivhengwa of the Tourism Business Council of SA (TBCSA) said: “As much as such incidents occur rarely we in the tourism industry condemn it. Such incidents rattles business owners. This is an isolated incident and we call for police to prioritise this incident.” Cape Chamber of Commerce president Janine Myburgh said: “Any violent crime affects incoming tourism, so incidents like this do not help our cause, especially after the negative effect of the drought on the industry.” zodidi.dano @inl.co.za Cape Argus