Now, MEC of Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela said he would launch a probe. “We are looking into this because the rental tribunal is part of my department and we are aware of these complaints,” Madikizela said. Madikizela said he had lengthy meetings with Communicare regarding the complaints. “Communicare came on our radar when we found out they were handling the Salt River Market development. We started raising questions about them because of these complaints,” he said. Initially, Communicare was supposed to buy the Salt River Market site to develop social housing. These plans have been put on ice by the City’s caucus. Communicare tenants organisation, The Foundation for Community Development (FCD) spokesperson Neville Petersen: “As funding stakeholders in Communicare,we call once again on the Premier Helen Zille and the City of Cape Town mayor Dan Plato to initiate and conduct a forensic audit on Communicare and a lifestyle audit on Communicare’s chief executive Anthea Houston, her management and the board members.” In July, tenants from Communicare handed over 300 forms to the Rental Tribunal, objecting to the 9%-15% rent increases that were forced on them. Fed-up community members from Dunoon, Ruyterwacht, and Kraaifontein took to the streets of Cape Town to vent their anger and hand over a memorandum to the Western Cape Provincial Legislature. Residents claimed they are being “abused” by Communicare, from which they are renting housing. They also handed over a memorandum to Madikizela. Among their demands are that lease agreements be scrapped and the housing units be transferred to the tenants, the rent increases be scrapped, water and sewage charges be itemised, and all arrears payments be scrapped. Petersen said 500 complaints lodged with the rental tribunal was an indication that Communicare lost the plot to provide social housing in Cape Town. “We asked the national minister (Nomaindia Mfeketo) to investigate these corrupt and irregular activities in Communicare. “We were informed that the office of the national minister met Anthea Houston and other Communicare officials and we are currently waiting for the outcome of this meeting. “We are also calling on Houston to make public the value of the housing and property stock under the portfolio of Communicare and the rand value of the stocks that will be transferred to the private company called Good Find Property, of which she is the self appointed CEO,” he said. Houston said she was not concerned about the investigation. “Communicare has acted well within the law and Rental Housing Act. Communicare is committed to ethical business practices, which is why we have taken decisive action against a small number of staff involved in corruption. We will investigate allegations of corruption or maladministration whenever evidence is brought to our attention,” Houston said. Houston disputed claims that their rental increases are exorbitant. “Communicare has the right to increase rent annually. This is stipulated in all lease agreements signed with tenants and is also provided for in the Rental Housing Act. “We understand that some tenants may have financial difficulty, and these tenants are encouraged to approach Communicare directly for relief. We have already managed to assist several tenants and are open to reviewing each tenants’ case,” she said. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus