A group of residents from Manenberg have slammed the city council and its newly formed Manenberg Steering Committee for not consulting them on their plans. “The community was not aware of these plans and we found out that the steering committee is not accountable to us. As the community we are rejecting this plan. “It is not aligned with the correct process that was supposed to be followed,” said Tara September, a community leader. On Monday evening during a community meeting, residents confronted the Mayoral Urban Regeneration Plan steering committee which September claimed was having a private meeting at the Manenberg People’s Centre. Residents questioned the process in which a plan was signed off without the community’s involvement. The steering committee representatives said they didn’t need to answer to the community, because it was a closed meeting. They said they followed due process for the plan to be signed and only invited certain people to be part of the signing. “The city (council) has also set up steering committee structures in Bonteheuwel, Hanover Park, Bishop Lavis, Valhalla Park, Ocean View, Khayelitsha and Atlantis as part of its plan to destabilise our communities by setting up its own structures and excluding the broader community. “Residents reject the plan and are instead working towards building a Manenberg development forum in which the people come together to determine Manenberg’s future,” September said. The Community Action Plan (CAP) for a major urban upgrade of Manenberg was signed on Tuesday by Premier Helen Zille, mayor Dan Plato, and the Manenberg Community Steercom, represented by its chairperson, Jonathan Jansen. The CAP finalises the historic consensus reached between the government and community representatives on how best to deliver a major urban upgrade in Manenberg.   The upgrade includes a 594-bed regional hospital; a schools upgrade that will benefit four primary schools; and a new school of skills for the Manenberg community and surrounds. This infrastructure investment forms part of the long-term vision to transform the urban landscape along central Manenberg into a Youth Lifestyle Campus. Jansen, chairperson of the Manenberg Community Steercom, said: “The Manenberg community sees this as an historic event, as it is a plan cultivated by the community and accepted by the city council and the province.” marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus