Earlier this year, BKYM spearheaded protests against property developers in Bo-Kaap, claiming they were entrenching gentrification and eroding their heritage. Since then the group split and its remaining leadership - Adnaan Oesman, Mujahid Hartley and Achmad Siraj Leggett - held talks with Blok. This resulted in a “Collaboration to find a solution agreement between Blok Urban Living and Bo-Kaap Youth Movement”, which the Cape Argus has seen. This agreement was signed in July, shortly after all the protests in Bo-Kaap erupted, leading to burning tyres and road closures. The agreement stated that the youth group and Blok were “engaging with one another to endeavour to resolve their differences and find a solution to their current impasse in connection with the current building developments in the Bo-Kaap”. Despite this agreement, Blok turned to the Western Cape High Court and obtained an interdict against Bo-Kaap residents, served this week, prohibiting them from “causing obstructions” or “entering or trespassing on the 40 Lion Street construction site”. The interdict prohibits any resident from “obstructing the route of, or in any way interfering with, the transportation of a mobile crane to and from the construction site”. During a meeting, the minutes of which Cape Argus has seen, Blok and BKYM also had “discussions about setting up an organisation which would be controlled by leaders in the community with whom developers and other people could engage”. BKYM is now a registered not-for-profit company and claims its directors have not been doing any deals with Blok. BKYM chairperson Adnaan Oesman said: “All we want is to see a peaceful resolution”. “We are not saying we want to work with the developers. Do we keep fighting them? We can’t stop all the plans. That is not the solution.” Former BKYM member Mishkah Samie, who is now part of the Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association, said the youth group displayed “unethical behaviour”. Blok responded on Tuesday to queries from the Cape Argus, saying that “Bo-Kaap Youth, having satisfied themselves that Blok is building lawfully, agreed to seek an amicable solution”. “No financial compensation was given to Bo-Kaap Youth for engaging with Blok and other developers as alleged,” it said. “Blok has on numerous occasions attempted to engage with the community prior and since then. Bo-Kaap Civic Association refused when we offered to facilitate negotiations,” it added. The civic plans to oppose the interdict and the matter is set down to be heard in court on December 6. @YazKam  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus