Scores of frustrated fishers marched up to the gates of the Daff offices demanding a meeting with the Daff Minister, Senzo Zokwana. Zokwana was not available but acting Deputy Director-General, Motseki Hlatshwayo, met five representatives from the group where they discussed the fishers’ grievances while the rest of the group awaited feedback outside the offices. Some of the issues tabled at the meeting were Total Catch Allocations (TAC), fishing rights and the verification of fishers before being granted rights. Yusuf Achmat, a commercial fisherman, said for the past decade things had been getting worse for fishers. He had been in the industry for 27 years, but the lives of fisherfolk had been deteriorating. “We came as educated human beings. Fishermen want to feed their families legally. Assist us, give us rights,” he said. Achmat said the allocation was not ethical. He said fishers walk out with about R10 800 every other month. “Who can live off R10000 for two months, that’s what the department is giving us,” he said. Another representative Charles Rudolph said the TAC was in a shambles with big companies getting 85 tons. He said the majority of the quota should be given to fishing communities and not companies. “We are not asking to be rich, all we are asking for is food security. What better way of protecting resources than have the community in that area protect their own resource. “Change the policies to benefit fisherfolk - their families,” he said. Martin Johnson, a young fisherman, questioned what the department was doing in developing youth in the industry. “The industry infrastructure needs to be reviewed. Big companies are at seas all the time catching fish, what happened to the seasons which allowed for a break for the fish to recoup. These companies are at sea all year long with no break and huge trawlers. “That is why resources are depleting while us real fishermen are given a strict three-months season,” he said. The group produced a petition with about 248 signatures from fishers. Hlatshwayo acknowledged their grievances and has promised to set up a meeting with Zokwana for November 27, in Parliament. zodidi.dano@inl.co.za Cape Argus