As she packed in a pair of boxing gloves along with her other belongings in her office, De Lille said the fight between her and the DA is not over. De Lille signed her resignation letter in front of a large contingent of media on the steps of the Western Cape High Court. She approached the court to set aside two controversial reports, one implicating her in corruption and maladministration. De Lille also quit as a member of the DA. “I am a free woman and can now move forward. I can now move on from the racist DA. You have seen the councillors who have complained about racism yet there was nothing done. If you are being abused all the time, you cut yourself free,” De Lille said. On Wednesday Council Speaker Dirk Smit laid charges against De Lille and her mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron. The final forensic reports were received by the councillors last week. One report cleared De Lille of wrongdoing, while a second one recommended that she and Herron and suspended transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead be criminally charged. “I am determined as ever to clear my name as I have done with all other bogus charges and allegations that have been made against me since September last year,” De Lille said. Asked why she is pursuing a court challenge despite not being mayor anymore, De Lille said: “I am going ahead with this case in my personal capacity. I have now done what needed to be done, because I am adamant to clear my name. Yes my days as mayor are now over, but this is not the last. The fight will continue.” At the centre of the investigation was suspended transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead over a tender for electric buses which involved R286 million and the provision of Volvo bus chassis worth about R43 million. DA deputy federal chairperson Natasha Mazzone welcomed De Lille’s resignation. “After a difficult and protracted journey, we will now finally put this matter behind us and focus purely on the people of Cape Town,” she said. Plato will be sworn in today, Thursday November 1, and voted in as mayor by Council. ANC provincial spokesperson on local government Richard Dyanti said the manner in which the DA has dealt with De Lille, compared with their inaction against others, speaks volumes. “The DA’s claim of being tough on corruption has now been exposed, the DA being a party that uses a selective, racist and factional set of double standards,” said Dyanti.   @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus