The Hawks’ National Firearms Task Team last Wednesday served security company owner Schlomo Schwartz, 53, with an administrative fine following the seizure of firearms and permits. The company, Schlowy Custom Security & Equipment (pty) Ltd, escorted Stanfield to Khayelitsha Court just three months ago, when they were disarmed by the Hawks. Hawks regional spokesperson, Philani Nkwalase said the fine was for three firearms and defective licences. Meanwhile, in a separate case in the Khayelitsha Regional Court, three men on trial for a cash-in-transit robbery have been sentenced. Jongizizwe Diniso, 32, Manini Mlandeli, 35, and Sakhumzi Monde Mlandeli, 35, were arrested in 2008 but were denied bail leaving them to serve a period of 10 years and one month incarcerated, awaiting trial. The trio faced charges emanating from a cash-in-transit incident at a Supermarket in Site B, Khayelitsha on September 19, 2008. The armed men took a security guard’s service pistol and fled with the money box. The money box exploded soon after being activated and the money was recovered. All three suspects were arrested on the same day and two firearms were recovered. The men were convicted and sentenced on Friday. Nkwalase said: “The 10-year imprisonment period awaiting trial, was taken into account during sentencing. Consequently, all three suspects were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for two counts of cash-in-transit armed robbery, seven years’ imprisonment for attempted murder, five years’ imprisonment for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. “All these sentences were suspended for five years with stringent conditions owing to the 10-year imprisonment awaiting trial.” And in Stellenbosch, a UK national with South African citizenship is facing charges of possession of illegal firearms and a charge for pointing a firearm at his wife. Anthony Ray’s home was searched by police and firearms were seized. According to his lawyer, advocate William Booth, Ray was not residing at the house but his “estranged wife” was. Booth said the additional charge for pointing with a firearm was lodged by the wife after the guns were retrieved. The case was postponed to February 22, next year. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus