But it was the story behind that that makes this young boy even more remarkable. James’s article was featured above the story of the 12 pupils who moved the crowd at the African Future Leaders Hub Conference with their debating skills and were invited by the Malaysia Institute of Debate and Public Speaking to attend the debate camp in Borneo, Malaysia, but couldn’t afford the airfare. On Monday, James sent the Cape Argus a letter explaining that his mother read him the article about the young future leaders who are in need of funding for flight tickets to Malaysia. Included in his letter were his personal savings for the four pupils. “I hope my pocket money savings are enough to help. Mama says she will give some money too,” said James in his letter. He donated R192.40 out of his savings. Tamra Capstick-Dale, Dale’s mother, also donated four cheques of R1000 for each of the four pupils. “James struck us very unexpectedly. Hearing such a young person of his age being the one to pioneer this and formerly donating has made us very grateful. James is the real leader and he has paved a wonderful way for Capetonians. He has also inspired us as African Future Leaders,” said advocate Denilson Ralekoala, founder and chairperson of the African Future Leaders hub. “James shows that he is a compassionate person, his already a giver and people like James are going to be blessed even more. “At his age he is already being a blessing to others and this is a fine example to other young children.” James has made a plea to other young individuals like him to help support these four young pupils in their journey to becoming future leaders. “I believe in the children of Cape Town and I would like to ask all seven-year-olds to give some money out of their piggy banks until there is enough for all four children to go. Could you help me do that please?” asked James. Members from the Future Leaders Hub are also walking around the city and asking people to help donate to the pupils. If anyone would like to support and make a donation can e-mail den@africanleadershub.com or call Denilson on 0818876479. @Sukainaish  sukaina.ishmail@inl.co.za  Cape Argus