For the last few months the ANC has been in the process of taking names and nominations from its branches for leaders in the provincial legislature and Parliament, and provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs has been accused of manipulating the process. SACP provincial leader Benson Ngqentsu said that during the 2016 local government elections, Jacobs was accused of manipulating lists. “The national executive committee did an investigation and have found that there were serious allegations against Jacobs. Why is he still handling the list process? We cannot allow this man to be in charge of something so serious, especially if he has already messed the process up before.” Ngqentsu further claimed that Jacobs belongs to a part of the ANC who were hell-bent on purging SACP members from the ANC and the state. “In the post 2016 local government elections he led an offensive at removing communists from the list and neglected the rest, particularly in Boland. The issue of ward 93 in the metro is a classic example. Our view is that keeping Jacobs as provincial list committee convener will compromise the entire list process. The party will fight against this as part of the struggle for a reconfigured alliance. "The centrality of the alliance must be taken into account. Faiez must go.” If the challenges were not ironed out, Ngqentsu threatened that the SACP would contest elections on its own next year. “We will do our thing. We will not allow the ANC to run rampant.” Jacobs, however, hit back, saying he had never been found guilty of any wrongdoing. “All our alliance partners are represented in the list committee. But what needs to be remembered is that the ANC is the alliance leader. "The list process is also not one where we favour certain people. Decisions are based on integrity and the value that members will add. We are not singling out personalities.” In 2016, several protests broke out in the ANC's Dullah Omar region when it emerged that certain members were removed from lists for councillors for the City of Cape Town. “I have never been found guilty of anything. The list process of 2016 has been sorted out. The other matters pertaining or stemming from it have also been dealt with. What remains important is that we respect these processes and focus on the elections. That should be our complete focus,” Jacobs added. Asked about election preparations, he said: “We've set up structures, and every week we are holding consultative forums in communities.” jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus