The City’s October financial monitoring report states that water charges have been over-recovered by R834million and sanitation charges by R217m due to some consumers still using water above restriction levels. Section 71 of the Municipal Finance Management Act prescribes that the City’s chief financial officer, Kevin Jacoby, must by no later than 10 working days after the end of each month submit to mayor Dan Plato and the Western Cape Treasury a statement on the City’s finances. In his report, Jacoby said the introduction of level 5 restrictions, which came into effect on October 1, would slow down the rate of over-recovery of billed and collected revenue against the original revenue budget. He said these trends were monitored and budgetary alignments would be considered during the January adjustments budget. Jacoby stressed, however, that the over-recovery on sales was not all cash backed. “High consumption by non-paying customers will mean that the over- recovery on ‘billed revenue’ will be offset by the over-expenditure, as would be reflected by the provision for the non-cash portion of the amount billed. "Depending on usage levels (impact of seasonal usage), the anticipated cash-backed portion of the over-recovery will be used as a buffer for potential under-recoveries later in the financial year,” he said, adding that level 6 tariffs, which were implemented to discourage high consumption, had escalated their billed revenue. Electricity revenue was also over- recovered, by R190 million. According to Jacoby’s report it is due to periodic changes in consumption as a consequence of changing weather conditions, as well as implementation of alternative energy sources. An under-recovery on traffic fines and penalties was recorded due to the public’s inability to pay fines, capacity of courts to deal with the number of cases and fewer fines being issued as staff are redeployed to other areas. Stop COCT founder Sandra Dickson said the City had been over-recovering billions since the drought. “It is absolutely ridiculous. We will not allow the City to continue with this. We are watching them closely and will continue to expose them for this unfair practice,” she said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus