The pupils, who formed part of Equal Education (EE), said Schäfer had to avail resources to make Western Cape schools safer, because the norms and standards signed into existence by Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga five years ago, were not implemented. The pupils camped outside Parliament on Wednesday night to meet Motshekga. They want her to address poor security and fencing in schools, and toilets that weren’t private, leaving pupils vulnerable. However, Motshekga was unable to address the group, and to their disappointment, Schäfer was also not present to accept their memorandum. “We spent hours and hours here, but whenever we asked the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) to meet us, they always send representatives. It’s like we’re monsters. “We’re here peacefully, but it’s like we’re wasting our energy and our time for something we have in common; which is our education and our future. “We, the students, are supposed to be her priority. There are various other issues that fall under the matter of norm and standards, and safety happens to be one of them,” said Grade11 pupil, Chwaita Mpeqeka. She was cheered on by the protesters who held placards saying “please care about black learner education” and “through tax our parents are paying you to fix our schools”. Mother, Daphne Erosi, urged Schäfer to sympathise with mothers and parents of pupils who face attacks on a daily basis, once they leave school grounds, due to a lack of safety. “When your child is born, you feel joy, happiness, excitement and you give him or her love. So why is a mother of children so heartless? “Why is Debbie Schäfer like this? “It looks like she’s unwilling to fix our schools because she’s always saying the budget is low, and you can’t do anything with no money. “As a parent, as a wife, she can put herself in my shoes,” said Erosi. Ministry of Education head, Anne Schlebusch, who accepted the group’s memorandum on behalf of Schäfer, thanked EE for their commitment and said the WCED was engaging with EE to address issues outlined during a meeting last month. “I am addressing the safety matter, we continue with maintenance and improvement programmes. “We’re in partnership with other provincial departments working tirelessly to addressing safety concerns,” said Schlebusch. athina.may@inl.co.za Cape Argus