Advocacy group Collective spokesperson Pedro Garcia said the reduction of TAC in SSF from 235.3tons in the interim relief measures and 70.4tons in the near-shore allocation to a combined 163.05 tons, this year, and SSF offshore allocation from 248.7 tons to 143.71 tons, this year, was unacceptable. “To think that the government can do this to the poor. There is no need for it to cut down for SSF when the resources are there. There is no way this will make economic sense for our people. Our people are already living in poverty. Rock lobster is a key resource in ensuring their survival - the poor are already battling as it is.” Garcia said the amount assigned for interim should just be assigned to SSF as the corporate entities that were to use these catch would most likely fall into the SSF sector once the policy was implemented. On Friday, the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries announced the 2018/19 rock lobster allocation. The allocation follows a legal dispute and Western Cape High Court ruling which found that the 2017/18 allocation was inconsistent with the Constitution. The ruling followed an application by the World Wide Fund for Nature SA (WWF-SA), which complained that the TAC set at 1 924.08 tons was too high, thus undermining the lobster's long-term survival and also disregarding fishermen who depend on the resource. The commercial offshore sector’s allocation was reduced from 1 204.48 tons to 575.43 tons while the commercial nearshore fishing sector was cut from 376.1 tons to 163.05 tons. Garcia said the SSF were used as pawns in the legal battle. “WWF-SA said we supported them. We supported the sustainability and longevity of the resource and others felt like we back stabbed them.” Garcia said they weren't consulted in the reduction talks. WWF-SA’s environmental programmes unit head Dr Theressa Frantz, said she noted the department's decision. “This is a fìrst step in the process of rebuilding the SSF and we hope the department will adopt further measures as part of the recovery plan, including addressing poaching. “We remain concerned about the long-term sustainability especially in light of the minister appealing the recent court ruling on this matter.” Economic Opportunities MEC Beverley Schäfer said she was pleased with the reduction. “It is vital that we protect our ocean reserves by means of conscious fishing in order to sustain our marine resources and the jobs they create moving forward." @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus