A police officer who has been in the gang unit for close to five years said he no longer had the protection or back-up of the unit after he was told he would be redeployed to a police station after raising complaints about allegedly corrupt seniors in the unit. The officer, who didn’t want to be named, said following a change in leadership in the Bravo group of Operation Combat they noticed a change in the way targeted gang leaders were being treated. “In the past we were strict with how we dealt with gangsters. We were always stern with them, but then it changed and became more friendly,” he said. On March 5, he said by way of example, a raid was carried out at the Malmesbury house of a known southern suburbs gang leader. “An amount of more than R200 000 was found lying on the bed. He said he was going to buy a taxi with it that day. But the captain on duty at the time pulled the gang leader aside and told him if he co-operated he would get some of his money back, only to find out only R70 000 was checked in at the police station. The rest of the amount was missing,” he said. The captain was reported to the anti-corruption unit and transferred to another post. The officer said the Bravo group was victimised and redeployed to police stations. The provincial police commissioner’s spokesperson, Novela Potelwa, said she could not comment on the matter as it was still under investigation. “Where corruption is picked up, the anti-corruption unit investigates and perpetrators are brought to book. The unit comprises a select team of detectives who are knowledgeable in matters relating to graft. Their role, among others, is to see to the protection of whistle-blowers,” she said. “It is also worth mentioning that efforts are made to rid the SA Police Service of corrupt officials, as they constitute a minority within the service yet they taint its reputation,” she said. Police portfolio committee chairperson Francois Beukman said corruption within the police existed. “It is unfortunate that high-ranking officers are always implicated in this. Police must be properly vetted on recruitment and constantly during service. Lifestyle audits must be made, as well as polygraph tests done,” he said. Western Cape Community Safety MEC Dan Plato said the case displayed typical examples of victimisation. “There is a national and provincial whistle-blowers policy. The officers must come forward for protection. “Gangs are receiving protection from high-ranking officers. There are many of these corrupt officers and they need to be brought to book as they want to be a law on their own,” said Plato. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus