The fire that killed five boys comes a month after another informal settlement fire in Kosovo in Philippi killed five people, including one child, and left over 20 wood and iron structures destroyed, leaving 66 people displaced. The boys from the Tyhalani family: Vukile, Siyahluma, Lithemba, Lunje and Lunathi their cousin, died at the scene while their mother and older sister were taken to hospital for treatment, leaving 30 residents displaced. RELATED: Five children killed in Cape shack fire Welcome Gwangqa, one of the residents in the area, said: “We have been residing in this area for almost 19 years, without electricity and water, hence it was difficult to fight the fire. We need proper housing. Nosibongile Dube praised Siphiwo Nqamduku, their councillor, for taking quick action after the incident. “Our councillor is very helpful. He is always with us through thick and thin, he is even assisting us to rebuild our shacks. “We heard the voice of a woman screaming for help, but were unable to assist as the fire had already spread throughout the shack,” Dube added. Siphiwo Nqamduku, the ward councillor said: “We’ve been getting assistance from different people and departments, such as Sassa giving us blankets for the families, the Department of Water and Sanitation installed taps for water, and the Department of Human Settlements gave us building materials.” Western Cape Department of Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela visited the informal settlement to view the damage. The cause of the fire is not yet confirmed, but the community believes that it started due to malfunctioning electricity cables.The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) called on authorities to accelerate housing delivery and the shack eradication programme to end harrowing deaths and losses that impoverished communities suffer. “We are saddened by the heart-breaking losses that the families suffered, the pain of their grief is too deep for us to imagine and accept,” stressed Sanco national spokesperson Jabu Mahlangu. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus