These are the imploring words of our beloved, the late Nelson Mandela which especially strike a chord today, International Children’s Day. While children should be happy and carefree on this day, sadly in South Africa the majority are vulnerable and at risk. RELATED - #ChildProtectionWeek: Child abuse costs country billions As the horrific details of the murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters are described in court, children’s rights organisations and activists expressed concern about the environment in which the South African child grows up. “One thing we know is that currently the environment is not safe and secure for our children to thrive. The laws are there, but what we need is implementation and we need everyone in society to get involved,” the spokesperson for Save Our Children, Sibusiso Khasa, said. Khasa said it was pure abuse of power by adults who maltreated children. “These are the people who should be protecting children. It also means we need to start in the home setting when dealing with the problem, equip parents with positive parenting skills and positive discipline and children’s rights.” Khasa pointed to shortcomings in the police in dealing with the safety of children. “Our police force has shown it is not adequately trained to deal with cases of child abuse, and in many instances the police don’t know what to do to help protect children. The police must invest more in training officers on how to handle these cases.” He said the police needed to act swiftly to ensure that perpetrators were arrested and did not prey on other children. Professor Stefanie Röhrs of UCT’s Children’s Institute, said that responsive services needed to be implemented. “We need services that are responsive to children’s needs and that are accessible to children. There is a dearth of therapeutic services for abused children, and the services that are available are often provided by NGOs struggling to access sufficient funding to provide such services.” Community activist Roegshanda Pascoe said: “Every day we see children dying, and we can’t really speak about child protection. It means the laws on paper are not working, all the systems are failing our children.” Pascoe acted as a family spokesperson for the Pieters family and assisted in the search for Courtney in the days before her body was found. “I am trying to comprehend how someone who I have spoken to and met when I was with Courtney’s mom could do something like that. “Every time I see Courtney’s mom, my heart breaks into pieces,” she said. Pascoe said she feared for her grandchildren’s safety every single day. “Every time I get a call from a parent who wants me to help search for their child I become so cautious for my own,” she said. The Western Cape Department of Social Development has been on a mission this week, launching various projects and initiatives to ensure the safety of children in the province. “South African children are afforded some of the most progressive children’s rights and legal protections in the world Ensuring they are translated into meaningful policy and action requires a whole-of-society approach which recognises the role that parents, communities, NGOs, the government and the private sector should play,” MEC Albert Fritz said. He said the department had devoted the largest share of its budget to services for children and families (R694million) this year. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus