Naik was served charges by the DA for “amassing support for the ANC to place the opposition in a position to govern the George municipality”. Odette Carson, DA provincial communications director, said a disciplinary hearing had been held on Thursday. Naik had party bosses fuming after his anti-gay comments that he did not approve of a performance by the Boston Gay Men’s Chorus in George. Naik faces disciplinary action by the DA’s federal legal commission. ANC council chief whip Nomawethu Jantjies, who initially claimed a motion of no confidence in the mayor was held on Thursday, said the DA needed to clean up their house. “This is an in-house matter and we are not going to get involved. We are, however, concerned that service delivery in George is being affected by the DA’s instability tactics. This should come to an end,” she said. Virgil Gericke, a councillor for the Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners (Concerned Local Residents), said there was no motion of no confidence. “There was one item discussed, but this was a confidential matter. That is all that happened. Nothing else. The mayor is still there,” he said. Meanwhile, DA MPL Masizole Mnqasela said ACDP leader Ferlon Christians's support of Naik’s anti-gay comments needed to be dealt with. “Christians and Naik must understand that although their public disapproval of the event has not halted it, their public sentiment acted as ammunition for the hatred felt towards the gay community, which still simmers in our society. "The power of one small utterance, especially one against a community which is already the target of hatred by various groups in society, has tremendous power and disastrous consequences. “While he has every right to hold his own set of Christian-based beliefs, he must understand that as a member of South Africa’s human rights-based society, he has a moral duty to represent and foster tolerance and acceptance regardless of his personal views,” Mnqasela said. The Hawks swooped on a number of George Municipality offices, business premises and private homes during a search-and-seizure operation, following allegations of fraud and corruption in procurement processes, and the awarding of tenders by the municipality. Electronic equipment and a number of documents were retrieved by the Hawks during their operation on Thursday. The operation followed claims by individuals about irregular tender procurements and procedures. George municipal manager Trevor Botha said they were co-operating. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus