Two former finance ministers looked after their finances pretty well, judging from their long list of shareholdings and directorships of several companies, while other prominent MPs were spoilt with cellphones, expensive alcohol and VIP tickets to lavish social events. Sifiso Buthulezi, deputy minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, holds a large number of directorships and shares in several small and large companies that cover two pages in the register. RELATED: Whiskey, ties, tickets and houses - MPs declare gifts Buthulezi served a stint as deputy minister of finance. He has more than 50 interests, shares and investments in local companies, ranging from local media, water providers, jewellery, travel and logistics businesses. He also has directorships, shares and partnerships with 50 companies, but nothing to disclose in respect to sponsorship or work outside Parliament. Buthelezi declared that the Russian Embassy gave him a bottle of Noble Russian Vodka worth R2399, he also received a gift hamper of R500 (unknown source) and a wall picture worth R580 from the China Development Bank. He owns three houses - a 2000m2 property in Johannesburg, a 4000m2 home in Morningside, Durban, and a house in Hilton, Pietermaritzburg, that is 8000m2 in size. Buthelezi has a private pension in the Makana Investment Corporation and one with the Military Veterans Pension, a public scheme. He is also a trustee of two trusts, but no benefits are listed. Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, now Minister of Public Enterprises, has interests in some of the biggest JSE-listed companies. Gordhan’s portfolio of shares include the country’s major banks, well-known retailers, telecommunications, a media company and transport services. Some of the big names include MTN, Pick n Pay, Steinhoff, Growth Point, Naspers, Tiger Brands and pharmaceutical giant Aspen. Gordhan has two houses, one in Groenkloof near Pretoria and a flat in Durban. Finance Minister Nhlahla Nene has, according to the register, nothing to declare. Meanwhile, cellular companies have been footing the bill for MPs and ministers to attend fancy social events while others got top of the range smartphones. Telkom gave DA leader Mmusi Maimane a Samsung Galaxy S7 worth R11 000 while his colleague David Maynier received the same phone. EFF MP Leigh-Ann Mathys received a Samsung phone worth R12 000 while Godrich Gardee, EFF secretary and MP, received a Samsung S8 worth R11000. Telkom gave Deputy Minister of Public Works Jeremy Cronin a R3 000 notebook while UDM leader Bantu Holomisa got accommodation at the SuperSport / Telkom Golf Tournament worth R7 000 and tickets to the Vodacom Durban July worth R5 000 from the cellular giant. ANC MP Comely Maxegwana received tickets to the Cape Town Jazz Festival from Vodacom as well as her colleagues Azwihangwisi Muthambi, Thulas Nxesi (Minister of Public Works) whose tickets were worth R2 000 and R9 000 respectively. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande received tickets to the value of R17 000 from Vodacom. EFF leader Julius Malema listed four Trusts on his register, and had nothing else to disclose. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus