Cape Town - Martin van Breda, father of convicted axe murderer Henri van Breda, died "a heroic death". When delivering sentencing in the De Zalze triple murder, Judge Siraj Desai said in the Western Cape High Court on Thursday, that the murdered father of three was found lying over the slain body of his eldest child, Rudi, The murders were committed on January 27, 2015 at their home in the upmarket security estate home in Stellenbosch. Henri killed his older brother Rudi while he slept. Martin was hacked to death while defending Rudi. Henri killed his mother with the axe in the passage. Marli, his sister, was also found lying in the same passageway. "Each murder of one's family constitutes severe penalties. The murders were premeditated involving serious consequences," Judge Desai said before handing Henri three life terms, plus an additional 16 years behind bars. "The victims were unarmed, defenseless against a cold blooded murderer whose violence was excessive and intuitative." Judge Desai concluded that Henri van Breda had planned the murders. He said he had time to fetch the axe and also had lengthy conversations with emergency services while Marli was fighting for her life. Judge Desai said Henri did nothing to comfort her. In mitigation of sentence on Tuesday, Henri's defence lawyer, advocate Pieter Botha, submitted that Van Breda was young and a first offender. He said he had no other substantial or compelling circumstances to submit to the court. Judge Desai pleaded with the defence to give him a human factor reason for him to exercise mercy in sentencing the accused. He said he wanted to hear at least one reason that would explain why Van Breda hacked his family to death. Henri was given a life sentence for each of the murders, plus 15 years for the attempted murder of his sister, Marli, and a further 12 months for obstructing justice. The sentences are to run concurrently. The defence team indicated it would appeal both the sentence and judgment on June, 27. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus