In the State’s head of arguments prosecutor, advocate Liezel Herbst, argued that the court should find Robyn guilty on all charges of rape, kidnapping and more specifically that he should be convicted of murder with dolus directus (intent to kill). Camron went missing on July 2 last year. Her body was found in a field near Slangkop Street, Ocean View. READ MORE: 'Cop framed me' claims Camron Britz murder accused It is the State’s case that the accused had called the deceased, who was a relative, under the pretence that her father was calling her. The accused was also linked to the case by DNA and seminal fluid found on the deceased. Robyn denies committing the murder. He said he was home the entire night from 11.47pm. In his defence he alleges that his semen was planted in the deceased’s body. Herbst rubbished allegations that the accused was framed by the investigating officer and an old childhood friend. “Claiming that he is the victim of a massive conspiracy against him, almost seems to be a knee-jerk reaction by the accused upon realising that the evidence against him is overwhelming, in a desperate attempt to explain away the obvious. “There is no doubt that the accused raped the deceased by sexually penetrating her vagina and anus and that he was also the one who murdered her,” she submitted. Herbst argued that is was highly improbable that semen could be extracted, in advance, from the accused without his knowledge of it. “The accused was unable to answer any of the questions relating to when and how his semen was obtained, who was involved and why he of all people was framed. If the deceased was raped and murdered in order to frame the accused, the question must also be asked why she of all people had to be the victim,” she told the court. Herbst also questioned Robyn’s choice of having his mother testify as his alibi when she was not mentioned much in the trial, yet his brother, who was mentioned, was not called. “There is no way that the accused’s alibi could guarantee that the accused did not leave the house again after he entered at 11.47pm. Considering that the witnesses saw him with the deceased after midnight.” Judgment will be delivered on Wednesday. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus