“Almost 15 premises were subjected to a search and seizure operation after it transpired that the alleged doctors were practising without valid licences.” Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said. “The operation took place at various so-called medical practices and private homes in areas including Bellville Paarl Mbekweni Khayelitsha and Philippi. READ MORE: More bogus doctors slipping through “Six people between the ages of 33 and 49 were arrested and are expected to appear in different courts today, 18 June.” Mulaudzi said documents and electronic devices were seized for further investigation. “The suspects face an array of charges for violating the Health Professions Act other related medical acts, fraud, forgery and uttering as well as money laundering,” he said. The HPCSA expressed concern over an apparent spike in bogus doctors emerging across South Africa. “The arrests reinforce the challenge that the HPCSA and law enforcement have in ensuring that bogus practitioners do not practise anywhere in South Africa. “It is important for the public to know how to identify bogus practitioners and where to lodge a complaint. Practising illegally is a criminal offence,” HPCSA spokesperson Priscilla Sekhonyana said. She said the HPCSA and the Hawks had received tip-offs regarding the bogus practitioners. Based on these, an investigation was then conducted to ensure that the allegations were true. “The HPCSA is concerned about the many bogus practitioners that are present countrywide,” Sekhonyana said. In November last year the HSPCA released a list of unregistered or illegal medical practitioners issuing medical certificates in the Western Cape. Sekhonyana said bogus doctors were having a crippling effect on economy. “Bogus doctors do not pay tax. They rob members of the community of their hard-earned money and issue fake medical certificates to employees which affect productivity,” she said. Last year the HSPCA reported that in the last three years 300 bogus doctors had been prosecuted. SA Medical Association chairperson Mark Sonderup said: “We have maintained unequivocally that anybody who is practising illegally is committing a crime and should be prosecuted as a criminal, and this is remotely not a professional issue because they are not professionals.” He said bogus doctors were a massive cause for concern because of the harm they could do. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus