The convicted killer, accused of breaking into the home of Scottish grandmother Sandra Malcolm, 74, in Lakeside in April 2015 before decapitating and dismembering her body, sat silently as the prosecution testified about how Malcolm’s body was found. Herbst said Prince broke the window and burglar bar of the house, which showed arrogance and disregard for people’s property. Malcolm then made Prince tea and toast and treated her injured foot before Prince stabbed her repeatedly in her throat, lungs, heart and other vital organs. “Why kill a person who is trying to help you? The accused’s lack of empathy is chilling at heart. If committing such a heinous crime does not cause the accused to feel remorse then rehabilitation won’t either. “A life sentence is regarded in law as the only appropriate sentence for this crime. The court has to consider the prospect of rehabilitation of the accused, but the lack of remorse is significant insofar as the accused’s prospects for rehabilitation are concerned.” Herbst went through the detail of a blood spatter report which explained how Malcolm was killed. It stated that Malcolm was standing when the first wounds were inflicted and stood for a while as a large amount of blood dripped down on the floor. Herbst said Malcolm then collapsed and fell to the floor before being stabbed several times, as blood spatter directions indicated multiple stabs. Herbst said drops of coagulated blood in the kitchen meant Malcolm was lying in the kitchen for a long time before being dragged to the lounge, as a slide pattern was seen. “(She) was still alive when dragged as blood stains indicated she was still breathing. Tiny circles show where bubbles were exhaled and then dried. She was stabbed yet again as spatter impact was observed. “She was then dragged again. Clothing items indicate multiple stabs. It’s possible there may have been a struggle between the victim and accused. “Multiple items were used to inflict the wounds,” said Herbst. Herbst said Prince previously wrote a letter addressed to family of the victim and asked them to one day forgive her for her actions, but at no point did Prince say she was remorseful or offer an apology to the family Sentencing is expected on June 29. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus