Mitchells Plain has been a hunting ground for child killers from the notorious Station Strangler to the murderers of Stacha Arendse and most recently, Stacey. A large crowd gathered seeking answers to questions around the murder of Stacey, whose body was found in a shallow grave next to a wendy house in De la Rey Street. Incensed residents petrol bombed the wendy house and set it alight on Sunday evening. Bonita Wood from the local community policing forum said the justice system must be held accountable. “Because what makes people angry is to see the same people who committed murder and crime walking in that same street the following day,” she said. “Our areas are full of gangsterism, killings and robberies, how can one kill an innocent child like this?” she asked. More than 50 children were killed in the province last year and numerous calls were made for some sort of intervention, including the appointment of a commission of inquiry into the spate of killings. On Monday Police Minister Bheki Cele visited the family and addressed the community. “This incident needs proper investigation and whoever in the police must take their duty serious and do their job,” said Cele. “We have taken the Western Cape on a special way of doing things, where we will be visiting Operation Thunder base camps, our aim is to reduce incidents of serious crime.”   Stacey’s grandmother, Laeeqah Adams, described her as a loving child. Her mother Sahalee Adams was too distraught to be interviewed. “Stacey was a loving, kind and caring child who should still be here with us. Stacey is going to be very well missed,” said Laeeqah. “She was a very talkative child, who liked to compliment us in the family.” Stacey’s aunt, Portia Daniels, said Stacey loved everyone. “She had lots of friends because of how she related with everyone. “Stacey would greet you until she got a response, she wouldn’t take no for an answer,” said Daniels. Edna Hockey, the principal of Beacon View Primary School, where Stacey attended as a Grade 1 pupil, visited the family and described her as a quiet and well-mannered girl. “She always challenged and was talkative,” said Hockey. A suspect is to appear in court soon. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus