The annual event is designed to motivate and inspire youth to find careers. “We wanted to host this career summit for youth that (prevents) them being out there and getting into trouble,” said Luntu Matutu, assistant co-ordinator of Youth at Work. ALSO READ: Trainees aboard SA Agulhas return with wealth of experience “We are trying to provide them with the tools and solutions they need to be able to get a good career.” This summit focuses on equipping unemployed youth in the surrounding areas of Cape Town with the necessary information and skills to get them to start thinking of the direction and next step they need to take to change their current situation. “We aim to do this by providing the platform for these young people to interact with professionals who are going to share their journey and opportunities; we also provide workshops that will equip them with skills,” said Matutu. Rev Rachel Mash, an enviromental co-ordinator, encouraged the youth to “start thinking outside the box”, by using recycling, agricultural facilities like planting vegetables and entrepreneurship. “Young people must look at an environment as an income; they must use the internet for advantageous purposes like looking for solutions and answers,” said Mash. “The city and the country is changing, everything is expensive, because we do not look at nature as a source of income,” she said. Ndileka Bala, Cape Peninsula University of Technology junior lecturer, said: “Nowadays it is easy to be employed when you do not have enough education; at the same time it is easy to be fired or stay in the same position for years. One needs formal education to be the best. “For many years, I was working for an accounting firm without a qualification, until I asked my manager the secret to success. It turned out to be education.” Commercial executive of Omni HR Consulting, Tebogo Molapisane, said the summit was aimed at encouraging and motivating youth who wanted to pursue a career in business. “Our generation must know that there are a lot of different business opportunities they can get into Most of the time the youth miss (out) because they do not have information pertaining to that field. “They will also get help about where they can go for funding if they want to start a business,” he said. Xolani Gabaza, 19, who is interested in Film and TV, said: “This summit was very interesting, one needs to trust yourself, work hard and score high.” Future social worker, Donnae Hendricks, 18, said: “I needed to hear these motivating words, they uplifted my spirit.” @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus