Ehrenreich told Cosatu’s provincial executive and its members in April that he would not stand for any leadership position at the congress. In his last media statement for Cosatu, Ehrenreich said the congress would focus on a number of issues from the political landscape in the province to socio-economic challenges. “The state of governance in the province and the racially biased delivery of services to white communities and in the municipalities needs attention,” he said. He also said a review of the functioning of Cosatu and its affiliates, to better service its members, was being worked on. “The advancing of the Western Cape into a union province to defend the interest of all workers. The protection of black workers against the discriminatory practices of the DA governance in the province, and the strengthening of worker control and democracy in the province and to promote unity in unions,” he said. Ehrenreich said the public transport system in the Western Cape was anti-black. “The education system in the Western Cape and its discrimination against black pupils will be a focus point. The safety and security situation in the Western Cape in relation to gangs and drugs needs to be addressed. We also need to look at the water crisis and its impact on jobs and economic growth,” he said. Cosatu would also be announcing a programme to put a stop to the stranglehold that the cellphone companies had on users, he said. Ehrenreich has served as a shop steward, an official, and as provincial secretary of Cosatu since 1989. Ehrenreich intends to study for a year before looking for another job. Ehrenreich has been a fierce critic of the DA, especially when he served as an ANC councillor, and was part of the presidential working group and the Millennium Labour Council launched in 2000. The new leadership will be announced on Sunday. Meanwhile Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini slammed the new optimism that the ANC had characterised as a “new dawn”. He was speaking at the National Union of Mineworkers’ national congress earlier this week. “This optimism and the new dawn is devoid of radical content. Just as we were in high hopes, the government announced the introduction of an increase in VAT. We have requested to engage with both the ANC and government to reverse the VAT increase policy. We have also said we will engage with the process of identifying and increasing zero-rated goods and services. But our first prize is to get the policy reversed, and if those engagements fail, we will meet in the streets,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus