But fears that 5G could lead to an explosion in the construction of cell masts has resulted in the establishment of the National Alliance Against Cell Masts (NAACM). The NAACM, which launched on Monday, was co-created by Kirstenhof resident Derek Main, who started the alliance after he noticed a surge in petitioning against increasing cell mast applications in the Cape. RELATED: Blouberg residents fear cellphone mast is a health hazard Main also read about telecommunications companies punting for 5G to be established by 2020, which he said could spur more cell mast applications, which inspired the creation of the alliance, which he hopes will unite interested parties against cell mast construction. “In my research for an objection, I saw so many other communities fighting towers and getting the same lame responses to their objections, and I thought we need to fight it in a different way. “I heard rumours that for 5G one needs many masts in close proximity, and within 500m of each other. With 5G on the horizon, there will be a massive roll-out of cell mast infrastructure and many more communities will be affected. It is an onslaught,” said Main. He said the group will challenge the constitutionality of erecting cell masts in residential areas, which may impact on the health of a community. The platform will allow communities to work together against cell companies, which Main said challenge objections in the legal system until communities are too exhausted to continue the fight. Table View resident Zane van Rooyen, who challenged the construction of one in his neighbourhood, said cell mast applications were a difficult process, as telecommunications companies normally have government approval on their side to roll out connectivity infrastructure. “It proves why municipalities are making cellphone masts a “minor works”. If our children start glowing in a couple of years, we’ll know why. “First world countries are already banning masts over having fibre, they’re a few years ahead of us. Hopefully, we will come around and it won’t be too late,” said van Rooyen. A Vodacom spokesperson confirmed that the network, which is among others wanting to roll out 5G, was preparing to roll out 5G networks, but they only expect it to become available from 2019, and hope to use their existing infrastructure to deploy the network. MTN launched Africa’s first 5G field trial in Pretoria last month, and said the transition to 5G was not just a flick of a switch, but required technical modifications and network architecture changes to ensure they meet the set standards. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus