These athletes will combine running and cycling over an epic 4666.4km journey spanning 27 days, which will see Jansen ride more than 100km a day and Myaka complete a minimum of a marathon every 24 hours. Jansen and Myaka are the first athletes to be allowed on Robben Island for 20 days to embark on the challenge. “The phrase that President Ramaphosa used, ‘Thuma mina’ (Send me), should be the phrase that everyone is using to better our country. This foundation aims to raise R5million to help disadvantaged communities across South Africa,” said Jansen. “We want to help individuals and communities in a range of areas of need, primarily sport, health-care and social upliftment programmes. We are committed to an honest, nurturing relationship with participants of the various programmes it gets involved with,” he said. “Opportunities are created for individuals who otherwise could not afford it and who would not have access. Funding is obtained through corporate and individual donations from across the globe.” Myaka said his dream to take on the challenge had finally arrived. “I have a goal in my mind and I know what we are doing will make a difference,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Robben Island spokesperson Morongoa Ramaboa said as the Robben Island Museum, they commended the Takla Foundation for their bravery and commitment to do good for others. “A lesson we all learnt from uTata: as we celebrate his centenary, let us remember that he fought for an ideology which many women and men who were instrumental in the Struggle stood for,” said Ramaboa. “We wish Grant Jansen and Mthetheleli Myaka well on their 27-day journey,” she added. @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus