Some of the challenges faced by the community include substance abuse among young people and the negative impact it has on families across Cape Town. The programme is the brainchild of Ward 49 Councillor Rashid Adams, who has brought together the City of Cape Town and partner non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to support parents and tackle these challenges head-on in his ward. “Earlier this month, I held the first Mayoral Pop-Up Office that aims to make the City more accessible, responsive and visible in the ward. I walked with the Women for Change group through Kewtown and Bridgetown and was reminded of the sheer determination and resilience of Athlone residents,” said De Lille. “So many residents are joining hands with us and, despite challenges, they want to do anything they can to uplift their community. “Today, the City armed another group of residents with the skills and knowledge to help prevent youth from getting involved with drugs and crime while assisting those already affected by it.” Adams said many parents are in denial as they are not equipped to deal with substance abuse. “Often the parents’ response to the situation results in consequences which negatively impacts on the lives of the affected child and family.” The Community Support Group is training 20 parents from Athlone this week by creating a platform for them to start talking to each other. After the two-day workshop, the 20 participants will be expected to go out to arrange meetings with other community members. They will be monitored by a group who will serve as facilitators of the community meetings and will register them on the City’s database as a community-based organisation. “Young people battling substance abuse are often rejected in their communities and substance abuse has torn many families apart,” De Lille said. “As much as we reach out to young people to walk the journey with them, they, too, have choices and each day we must all work together to empower the youth to make the right choices.” Staff Reporter @TheCape Argus Cape Argus