He was addressing a media briefing on Thursday where he said the dam levels were currently in a stronger position than for the same period last year. “The levels of the dams supplying water to Cape Town have been rising consistently and significantly over the past six weeks. As at today, total dam storage capacity is at just over 43%, and we still have more than two months of expected winter rainfall ahead of us. “Over the last few months, our collective water usage has been around 520 million litres per day,” Neilson said. He said the City was now in a position to state that not only did they manage to avoid Day Zero this year, but Cape Town will safely get through summer in 2019. “This is due to the amount of water already in the dams, our intense water demand management programmes, our unrelenting communication, awareness and the behavioural change it has affected over the past two years, as well as the continued support and sacrifice of Team Cape Town. “We have shown what we can achieve if we all pull together and work towards a common goal,” he said. Asked about mayor Patricia de Lille’s role in the crisis, Neilson said there was now more vigour in dealing with the matter. The DA, in a statement, also said since she was removed, the City could focus on the water crisis. But De Lille refuted the claims made by the DA and Neilson. “They are talking absolute nonsense. I drove massive campaigns to get the water consumption down from 1.1billion litres of water a day,” she said. Neilson, however, said from the start of the year the City had entered a critical stage of the drought. “For three years in a row the rainfall had been significantly lower than in previous years. The 2017 rainfall was the lowest in recorded history, at only 40% of the long-term average. “This resulted in a substantial decline in the levels of the six large dams that supply water to Cape Town, the surrounding municipalities and agriculture,” he said. Neilson said the continuing roll-out of pressure management across the City was achieving savings of more than 62 million litres of water a day. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus