Susan Rohde died on July 24, 2016. Her husband, Jason Rohde, is on trial for her murder. The State alleges he smothered her and staged a suicide, while the defence argues that it was suicide by hanging. Loftus, a defence expert, said that based on photographs taken at both autopsy examinations - one by State pathologist Dr Akmal Khan and another by defence pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal - there was pathological evidence in support of hanging as the cause of death. “I don’t have any doubt in making that statement. But I cannot exclude other causes of injuries to the neck although I believe the most probable cause of death was death by hanging.” Loftus said both pathologists should have conducted histology examinations on the ligature mark around Susan’s neck. “Histopathology (study of changes in tissue) would have been of tremendous assistance in erasing dispute,” he said. Loftus said that if there was doubt, histology would helped in determining a bruise on tissue from hypostasis, blood or fluid settling in one part of the body under the influence of gravity. Loftus also criticised Khan’s photos of the neck dissection. He said photographs of external features of the neck were taken with the neck in its normal position while internal features were taken with the neck extended. “It is impossible to reconstruct digital dissection of the neck demonstration in relationship of the soft tissue injuries to the external ligature mark,” he said. Loftus said: “When I look at the deceased’s lung, there is no indication that her respiratory function was compromised before death.” He said he only saw bruises on the edge of Susan’s lungs which could have been sustained through compressions. In Jason’s version he had performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on Susan. Loftus also questioned whether faecal matter found at the entry of the bathroom, the entry of the hotel room they were staying in and next to the body was human. “I must say it is very difficult for me to comment on it. I don’t know whether it was analysed and confirmed as human faecal matter,” he said. Loftus will be cross examined by a State prosecutor on August 6. The trial has been remanded till then. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus