So said Judge Yasmin Shenaz Meer on Wednesday when she convicted Yagyah Robyn of the rape and murder of his own cousin, 14-year-old Camron Britz, of Ocean View. Meer delivered her judgement in less than an hour at the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. RELATED: Accused ‘intended to rape, murder’ Camron Britz A stony-faced Robyn, wearing a fez and blue T-shirt with a tasbeeh around his neck, showed no outward reaction to Meer’s damning verdict. The 20-year-old was charged with two counts of rape, for vaginal and anal penetration, and one count of murder. Found Meer found Robyn guilty of murder and vaginal rape, but not anal rape. She explained her decision was based on the evidence presented by three expert witnesses, two police officers and 10 members of the public in court. However, she said there was no doubt that the person who raped Camron also killed her. Meer referred to DNA samples, namely semen, that were found on and inside the teen’s body, which identified her rapist as Robyn. “Had there been an interval between the rape and the murder, the deceased would have covered herself up,” Meer stated. “She was killed by the person who raped her. Whoever raped the deceased, also murdered her and with the cell DNA of the accused found on the deceased’s hands, his injuries, and murder by strangulation, he is this person,” she said, looking at Robyn. Meer also commented on Robyn’s time on the witness stand, when he claimed he had been framed by the investigating officer, Sergeant Moeketsi Raphala, and witness, Tino Woodward. Robyn said the men had plotted against him by planting his semen inside Camron’s vagina. But Meer said: “This was desperation and the accused’s version is far-fetched. It would have been virtually impossible for Sergeant Raphala and Tino Woodward to tamper with evidence.” Outside court, Camron’s mother, Berenice Britz, burst into tears while clutching a photograph of her daughter. She read out extracts of a poem written by Camron a month before her murder, in which the teen predicted her own death. “Thank you God,” said Berenice. “I knew justice would be served because I knew it was him and I have already forgiven him.” Robyn lured Camron away from a galley fire in Ocean View on Saturday, 1 July 2017, under the pretence that her father was calling her. Bushes Camron’s half-naked body was found the next day in bushes along Slangkop Street. She had been raped, strangled to death and river weed had been shoved into her mouth. Mitigation and aggravation of sentencing will start on 11 June.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice