Ever since that day in 2015, 74-year-old Solomon has been fighting to get all of the 2.5 hectares that was promised. Solomon’s land in Retreat was valued at R5.6 million in 2015. The family was told she could only receive 1.1ha because others needed compensation too. She said the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform finally agreed to sign the land over in March this year. However, months have passed and the signing never took place. “I’m fighting a losing battle, but I’ll fight for it till I’m on my deathbed. I’m not wanting anything from anyone, it’s my own biological parents’ land. Solomon said calls to the department had gone unanswered and her lawyer had received no response to e-mails sent to the Land Claims Commission. However, Solomon refuses to give up and said she’s written to the president to ask why she is being treated in this manner. Solomon said the land she grew up on comprised hills and valleys where her father toiled until midnight after a day’s work. The family eventually farmed on the land in the 1940s. This was until her father was forced to sell in 1961 after the area became a whites-only area. Solomon said the old regime gave 3ha to a Mr May in exchange for other land without her family’s consent and the family built big houses on the land, which they inhabit, while her own family suffered. “I can’t get that land back. I asked them to give me that 3ha on the land where I’m living now, which is municipal land, but they gave me all sort of excuses.” The Argus sent an inquiry to the department, but spokesperson Vuyani Nkasayi said the department was waiting for the City to reduce the asking price. Mayco member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said in May 2015, the City agreed that the land be sold to the Land Claims Commission at a cost of R5.6m. The Land Claims Commission was subsequently notified and requested to immediately transfer the land into its name and then to transfer the land into the name of the claimant. However, last November, the Land Claims Commission wrote to the mayor, asking for the land to be released at historical value, as opposed to market value. “Council must first approve the disposal of a City asset below market value before such a transaction can go ahead. A report is being prepared to this effect and will serve before council for consideration in due course.” @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus