The International Maritime Organisation hosted an event on Monday seeking to raise further awareness of seafarers’ well-being, complementing the hard work from the industry during last year and this year in addressing the current issues. Acting deputy director-general of maritime policy and legislation Dumisani Ntulu, who joined a panel as one of the main speakers during the event, said: “We want the government to acknowledge and engage (with the industry) on a continuous basis.” Ntulu described the “sacrifices” seafarers make throughout their working lives. “Every day, they wake up to limited wi-fi and technology, and often without their families. It is an isolated job, but it shouldn’t be forgotten,” he said. Officer Shuneen van Niekerk, working in Cape Town, made it clear that the role of seafarers should not be overlooked. “It’s so important for seafarers to be recognised. Over 90% of South African cargo travels by sea, so many people forget how important seafarers are to their daily lives.” While Van Niekerk, 26, often works away from her family and friends for over six months at a time, she believes her profession provides her with unique opportunities. “Seafaring is challenging, but you get the massive reward of travelling the world and seeing amazing places.” The conference also created an outlet for seafarers to express concerns, confronting the panel with questions regarding opportunities for postgraduates and the high number of sea cadets who drop out of the industry. Addressing the statistic that 80% of cadets drop out of the industry, Ntulu said: “Our cadet selection process needs a complete overhaul. Before you come and sit in the classroom, let’s get you wet.” South Africa also has limited shipping options, with one audience member claiming she is often “the only South African on board”. Ntulu agreed, saying the development of an SA-owned shipping fleet must become a top priority. In Port Elizabeth, the SA International Maritime Institute marked the International Day of the Seafarer by opening its national headquarters in Nelson Mandela Bay on Monday. @peter197t  peter.thomas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus