Cape Town - Increasingly frustrated residents of Cape Town will be pleased to know that the City of Cape Town will be spending R481 million over the next three financial years on new road infrastructure to ease up congestion in the Mother City. This was revealed in the Transport and Urban Development's budget passed before council on Thursday. "For those using private vehicles, we are well aware of the congestion on our roads, the frustration this causes, its impact on our city’s productivity and residents’ quality of life," mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said. "Thus, as far as congestion relief is concerned, the TDA has allocated R481 million over the next three financial years for the construction of new road infrastructure in congestion hotspots around Cape Town. "Some of the projects that are already under way are the dualling of Kommetjie Road in the Far South; Belhar Main Road and Erica Drive in Belhar; and Langverwacht Road in Kuils River," he said. "Coupled with these infrastructure projects, we need residents to work with us by making use of public transport as far as possible, and for private business to implement flexible working hours so that we can divert traffic away from our road network during the peak hour periods." The City was also investing in new minibus-taxi facilities in Dunoon and Masiphumelele, with 17% of commuters relying on this form of transport to get to work. "Over 500 000 Capetonians cannot afford motorised transport, and either walk or cycle to their destinations. Thus, we will keep on expanding the network of safe sidewalks and cycle lanes with the non-motorised transport funding we receive from National Government," Herron said. There would also be no increase in tariffs for on-street parking, Herron said, with the same tariffs payable until June 30, 2019. "Furthermore, R816 million is budgeted for the required infrastructure for the roll-out of Phase 2A of the MyCiTi service between Mitchells Plain, Khayelitsha, Claremont and Wynberg. This money will be spent over the next three financial years on the upgrade of Stock Road in Philippi; Jan Smuts Drive (M17) in Plumstead; and on the construction of new bus depots. "Once fully rolled out and implemented, Phase 2A will serve more than 1.4 million commuters from the Metro South-east," Herron said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus