This is why the Cape Argus together with Pick n Pay developed the Make a Difference Campaign, in order to shine a light on community heroes. The first person nominated for the campaign this week is Sakiena Cupido from Eastridge, Mitchells Plain, who feeds the needy in her community, even though she doesn’t often have enough to feed her family. READ MORE: Heroes make a difference Cupido, who lives in a wendy house at the back of her mother’s home started to cook meals for hungry people in her neighbourhood a year-and-a-half ago. She did this despite facing financial difficulties and obstacles in looking after her four children. “I found a job looking after an elderly couple in Kenilworth and I got a pain in my heart looking at the elderly and seeing what I’m doing for them and how much it means to them. It took me looking after them to reach out and help others. “I told myself this little money I get, I want to use to make a difference in others’ lives. I started cooking out of my house and I saw that the pots (of food) I was making was too little. I didn’t want to turn anyone away, so I got bigger pots,” said Cupido. Cupido borrowed a 60-litre pot which she’s using and the stove she uses is breaking under the weight of the pot, but she carries on and finds a way to cook a meal twice a week. Second nominee, Valerie Muller, from Lentegeur in Mitchells Plain, also goes above and beyond to assist those in her community and has been nominated as a hero within her community for cooking soup for the homeless every Wednesday. RELATED: Local author’s gift to ill children at Red Cross Muller, who is a pensioner, has been feeding the needy for the past seven years and she uses her pension to buy supplies. “Every Wednesday I give soup, I’m a pensioner and buy everything on my own. I get a lot of help from people.” The third nominee Salie and Elona in Pelican Heights, also assist people who need a hand and started Little People Play and Learn Centre in Pelican Heights, to help look after children whose parents were struggling financially. Unfortunately the teachers were unable to take a call, but they were still recognised by Abubaker Borrien for their dedication in looking after children in their community free of charge.  @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus