“Bernie”, as he was known to many, was a trade unionist during the 1980s and ended his lifelong career in the labour field working at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.  He died on June 26 last year. Bernie started work at the age of 16 as a messenger at the Cape Argus. At a young age, he helped organise newspaper vendors, media workers and journalists into trade unions like the Media Workers Association of SA. He was passionate about media advocacy and in later years he served as the SA Clothing and Textile Workers’ Union’s (Sactwu) National Media Officer. RELATED: 'Bernie was a beautiful, simplistic and embracing person' “Cornerstone Institute recognises the immense contribution of Bernie to peace, education, prosperity and a life of dignity for all South Africans. Bernie is one of the unsung heroes of our democracy to whom we will be forever grateful. As Cornerstone,  we are delighted and honoured to host the memorial lecture of Bernie,” said Noel Daniels, CEO of Cornerstone Institute. Bernickow received the Order of Luthuli posthumously this year. The order recognises South African citizens who have contributed to the Struggle for democracy nation-building democracy and human rights justice and peace as well as for the resolution of conflict. Bernie was recognised for his lifelong contribution to the fight for social justice and persistence in challenging the system that oppressed the people of South Africa. Cornerstone Institute, in partnership with the Ronald Bernickow Education Development Trust, Sactwu, and the Cape Cultural Collective hosts the lecture which recognises the contribution of Bernie and people like him who are always willing to help those in need, build stronger communities and workplaces and lend a hand to the tasks before them, Daniels said. Pregs Govender, former deputy chairperson of the Human Rights Commission, MP and trade unionist, and author of Love and Courage, will  deliver the lecture. The Ronald Bernickow Education Development Trust was formed in 2017 with assistance from Sactwu and Hosken Consolidated Investments who will make bursaries available to first-generation university students keen to pursue a career in media. “The trust hopes these bursaries will contribute to strengthening the role of the media, make a difference to the life of a family, enhance the voices of our communities and ultimately drive our shared vision for equality and a better life for all,” said Lorna Daniels from the trust fund. Staff Reporter @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus