Nigel Savel, the founder of this project, is passionate about the development of young children and equipping them with the necessary life skills to ensure that they have a shot at success. “It’s important that we walk the road with the children, hold their hands and lead them to a place of maturity.” RELATED - #16DaysForYouth: Athlone play centre a safe environment for kids Hordes of tourists flock to Paternoster get away from the hustle and bustle of the city. This is a great boost for the local economy, although it is usually short-lived. While Paternoster is undeniably beautiful, it has a dark side. Many residents live in abject poverty and it has become a hotbed for crime, which is directly related to poverty due to the high unemployment. Christa Taylor, a resident, decided something had to be done, so she opened Paternoster’s first soup kitchen. Her project was set in motion following an appeal to Heart FM during its #16DaysForYouth initiative, that seeks to lend a helping hand to communities and charities that make a real difference in people’s lives. She was given gas tanks and a carport where she could run her soup kitchen. “I do what I do for the children. There is a feeding scheme at the school but only in the morning. Children have to go without food the rest of the day because they come from families where there is no income, especially now that the fishing season is over until November,” Taylor said. Nearly 59% of the population consists of fishing industry workers, and their families have no alternative income. Taylor’s soup kitchen provides a meal for the children, the elderly and families twice a week. This angel feeds 200 people a day, ensuring that the elderly are provided for via doorstep deliveries. Taylor is funded by a donor who prefers to remain anonymous, but consistently deposits R2000 a month to ensure the running of this scheme. Heart FM brought along another former beneficiary of its campaign, “Tannie” Magda Meyer, who helped feed the Paternoster community yesterday. The residents came out to enjoy vetkoek, a wholesome stew, drinks and cookie crumb dessert. @16DaysForYouth Cape Argus