Industry experts said the drought and brief appreciation of the rand have created a challenging environment for the Western Cape. Judy Lain, Wesgro chief marketing officer, said January and February 2018 was the height of the drought crisis. “We have seen a decline in bookings from key markets as well as a decline in forward bookings,” she said. Figures from ForwardKeys 2018 indicate a downward trend, she said. According to ForwardKeys there is an expected year on year forecast of a 7% decline for July in forward bookings. The August year on year figure forecasts a 2% increase and in September a 1% increase. For October there is a forecast of a 2% decline year on year and a 4% decline for November. Last week Statistics SA released its "Tourism and Migration" report reflecting a decrease in tourist arrivals to South Africa. The comparison reflects that in March 2018, there were 3 560 382 arrivals compared to 3 841 519 in April 2017. StatsSA said just over 3.5 million people passed through ports of entry in April based on Department of Home Affairs immigration information, with foreign arrivals decreasing 6.9% to just short of 1.3million. Departures decreased by 9.1% and transits by 4%. Unathi Henama, tourism management lecturer at the Tshwane University of Technology, said the government has chosen not to undo its unfavourable visa system. “The visa issue could have been resolved two years ago, but there is no political will to resolve the visa issue. Instead, the habit of untruths is not affording the National Department of Tourism the ability to engage on the elephant in the room the visa issue. The visa issues and air access remain the major challenges that have contributed to a decline in tourism arrivals and no amount of convenient amnesia will deflect from this reality,” she said. Lain said; “We conducted many interviews with visitors to understand their concerns about travelling to the Cape. The biggest concern was around social and responsible tourism. To overcome this challenge we explained the economic importance of tourism to the citizens and how many jobs it supported.” Alan Winde, MEC for Economic Opportunities and Tourism, said: "We can attribute the lower figures to the drought crisis, but there are issues of the visas that also need to be sorted out. The weaker rand has made it cheaper for tourists to come, but we still see a decrease. Various factors affect the markets, there is never one sole reason." @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus