Kiiara Louw was diagnosed in the womb with CHAOS, or Congenital High Airway Obstruction Syndrome, when a radiographer at Retreat Day Hospital noticed a line on the scanner which appeared during a regular check-up. This concerned doctors as it indicated that there was no air in the foetus airways. The mother, Sasha-Joy Louw, was immediately referred to Groote Schuur for a full assessment. It was found that the foetus had CHAOS which saw her larynx not fully developed, resulting in sealed airways at the level of the vocal cords. WATCH: A first in Africa for Groote Schuur Hospital Louw was advised to abort her child but she and her husband were determined to carry her to full term. They found doctors at Red Cross who were able to assist. They had dealt before with cases similar to Chaos. The team at Groote Schuur consulted with the team at Red Cross and together they discussed surgery to the unborn child. The team delivered Kiiara via Caesarean section while Louw was at 38 weeks pregnant. They kept her umbilical cord attached to Louw, with the placenta to provide oxygen to her to survive the tracheostomy, performed by the surgeons. The mother had to undergo a very deep anaesthetic, which was risky and increased the chances of bleeding heavily. A team of 25 doctors and nurses showed great skill, knowing the clock was ticking and that they were responsible for the survival of both mother and child. “Once the surgical team bypassed the obstruction by inserting a tracheostomy tube below the windpipe and establishing a patent airway, they were satisfied that the umbilical cord could be divided. They felt immense joy as Kiiara started to breathe on her own,” said paediatric ear, nose and throat surgeon Dr Shazia Peer. Kiiara was stabilised at the Groote Schuur neo-natal ICU before being transferred to the Red Cross ICU, hours after delivery. She will now wait for two years to gain weight before having laryngeal reconstructive surgery, to give her voice and an airway that does not require a tracheostomy. Peer said it took months of preparation and simulation of surgery prior to the successful procedure, to be sure it would work, and the risks were high. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus