Justifiably known as the “Jewel of Overberg”, it has a rich history of struggle and bloodshed parallel to agricultural advancements that continue to drive the local economy. A favoured retirement town, there is so much peace and tranquillity where nature and humans co-exist in harmony. This quaint town is neatly tucked against beautiful mountains and has a wealth of activities for tourists to indulge in. READ MORE | #16DaysForYouth: Education is the escape from poverty A stone’s throw away lurks poverty and hardship in a little town called Genadendal. What a stark contrast between two towns only 5km apart. Genadendal lacks infrastructure, yet its people are patiently waiting for a change that will eradicate their persistent hunger and remove the ­squalor that has been their reality for many generations. Substance abuse, abject poverty and food insecurity is exacerbated by the fact that at least 81% of the population earns less than R3 500 a month. Furthermore, the schools in ­Genadendal are vastly underfunded and this worsens the struggle for teachers to provide their pupils with the quality of education they deserve. Voorstekraal Educare is the only early childhood development centre in the area and it strives to cater to the children’s right to education. Operating from a church, it is appallingly underfunded, but has ­functioned regardless, despite being under-­resourced and unable to provide consistent meals for the learners. Tuition fees are R80 per month, but there are at least 10 children whose parents cannot afford to pay, as they are seasonal workers and are without an income when no work is available. This puts a strain on the running of the school, and the two staff members often work without a salary. There is a need for learning material and stability to improve the quality of learning and teaching. “We just try to do our best for them. We can’t chase children away because their parents are unemployed, but also we can’t take in more children who can’t pay, because that will more strain on us,” said the principal, Lolita Kroukamp. Heart FM’S journey for the 16 Days For Youth led to these two towns, particularly Genandendal, where locals are ­desperate for help and a chance for their children to receive a decent education. Heart FM has sponsored two containers and built supportive structures to ­create space for the children who attend this centre. St John, a Cape Town-based NPO, has donated paediatric first-aid lessons for the teachers and first-aid kits. The donations made to the school are already changing lives and breathing life back into the community. With the additional learning space, the school will be able to cater for more children and renew their registration with the Department of Education and, in turn, qualify for a subsidy. @16DaysForYouth Cape Argus