Juleiga Abrahams from Lentegeur applied to enrol her son at four schools in the area. But after receiving three rejection letters when registration at all schools ended, she’s fearful that he will not find placement in the new year. “Years back when children finished primary school, the school would put them into the nearest high school. RELATED: Milnerton mom’s 5km school admission battle “More and more schools do entry exams now. My child never failed a year but with an entry exam, they just take top pupils and an average child doesn’t get a chance to better themselves. They have to go to schools where average children are, like Aloe High, and there is gangsterism and drug abuse.” Bridget Dfouza, who also struggled to find placement for her daughter, said her child performed well academically and placed 9th in her grade at primary school, however, she’s been rejected at both Mondale and Spine Road High Schools. Dfouza said sending her daughter to a school outside of the area was out of the question because as a working parent there would be no way to get her daughter to school each day. “They said she doesn’t fit the criteria. If the other school (Portlands High) says no, where will she go? The school is close by and one of the best, how can they not accept our children if they fit the criteria?” According to Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond, if a school is a maths, science and technology (focus) school or agricultural school, then schools are allowed to have a competency test, as there will be subject requirements and the pupils have to take certain subjects. Hammond said that Mondale, Spine Road and Rocklands High Schools were maths, science and technology (MST) schools and allowed to have competency tests prior to admission of pupils. “Only pupils with specific aptitudes will be allowed to attend an agricultural or focus school, even if such a school is the nearest school; nor will every pupil be entitled to equal access to a focus school without meeting the subject ability requirements. “There could thus be fair discrimination in admissions to focus schools based on aptitude. The WCED has been vocal about our challenges with school accommodation. Mitchells Plain is no exception.” Hammond said schools such as Spine Road and Mondale, received hundreds of applications for a limited number of places and unfortunately they could not accommodate everyone. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus