Madikizela spoke at a press briefing on Thursday after he held two-day meetings with the mayors of local municipalities to address the issue of land invasions and protests for houses. He said that although there were political influences at play, people had genuine concerns. RELATED: Increase in violent protests by rural residents “People are genuinely gatvol (fed-up) of the slow rate of housing delivery. We have seen in communities that there are people who have been waiting for houses for years, while those that are waiting five years or maybe less are in houses already. Those are the problems we have in municipalities. We see that they build houses, but the development does not speak to the housing database,” he said. Madikizela said they were now working much closer with municipalities to ensure that better services were delivered and that housing developments benefited those most in need. He said there had been 87 protests in the province related to land issues. “Areas like Dunoon, Vrygrond, Hermanus, Mitchells Plain, Parkwood, Ocean View, Gugulethu, Gansbaai were affected by protests for land and housing in the past four months alone. The violence, destruction of property and looting associated with these protests cost this province millions.” He said that since 2009, his department delivered title deeds to over 91 000 people and delivered over 160 000 housing opportunities. “And this within the constraints of a limited budget, that has been further cut by a R1 billion over the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) period. The housing backlog within this province is in excess of 575 000, the Department of Human Settlements can only deliver approximately 18 000 housing opportunities a year across the various housing programmes,” he said. He said the department’s reduced budget over the MTEF period placed further strain on their ability to deliver houses. “It is for this reason that we have embarked on our three strategic focus areas and continue to innovate and find creative ways to stretch our rand. The department identified catalytic and provincial priority projects for rigorous implementation. These projects serve to deliver integrated housing opportunities in high growth areas, with access to necessary public facilities such as transport, schools, safety and security,” he said. These projects are planned for Paarl, Worcester, George, Cape Town and Stellenbosch and other areas in the Winelands. These projects are to deliver in excess of 100 000 housing opportunities. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus