This was thanks to Sun International’s investment into the performing arts, through the Inspired Stages Trust NGO. The group’s socio-economic development team sponsored a performance workshop at GrandWest during the recent school holidays. The lucky attendees were boys and girls between 13 and 19 years old from the surrounding communities, who had shown a special interest and talent for the stage. RELATED: How Ricardo Koopman, a fisherman's son, rose from poverty to stardom The workshops, run by the Inspired Stages Trust, provided a learning platform with the greater aim of inspiring participants to achieve excellence in their lives through self-discovery, self-worth, self-respect and self-belief. Sun International decided to get involved with this fantastic NGO, as it enables our Western Cape youth to discover and harness their talents and passion for the performing arts, while learning valuable lessons about life,” said Heidi Edson, the socio-economic development specialist. “We hope that with support they will ultimately be able to excel in their passion field, taking their talents to the next level and eventually making careers out of it in different ways, on and off the stage.” The extensive sponsorship covered all the attendees’ fees, T-shirts and transport, as well as the facilitators, special guests, mentors and technical sound and equipment. The workshops culminated with the teenagers putting on a finale variety performance that showcased everything they had learnt for their families, friends and dignitaries. “At this workshop participants developed their individual passion for the performing arts in a safe, non-judgemental and supportive environment.” The Inspired Stages Trust empowers and inspires young adults through workshops that support young people’s passion in the genres of education, performance, production and life both on and off the stage. “Inspired Stages workshops’ ultimate mandate is to teach our youth how to live an enriched and successful life using life skills learnt through the performing arts. “The young people are encouraged to pass on the life skills and lessons they learn to others in their communities, creating an even larger impact.” @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus