After much deliberation, the DA-led provincial legislature committee on local government supported the bill, but raised several concerns. Masizole Mnqasela, DA MPL and chairperson of the committee, said there were concerns over fairness, equality and justice. “Although we support the principle of the bill because of its recognition and acknowledgement of the Khoisan communities, it fell short in addressing major concerns the committee had which, if not addressed, may render the bill inconsistent with the constitution,” he said. Mnqasela said the bill provided that Khoisan leaders should annually reapply for their powers to the premier and the national minister. “This exercise is at variance with the norm, as other traditional leaders do not have to reapply for their powers. This cannot be, and in addition to this we also reject the marginalisation and discrimination of the Khoisan leadership, which limits them to two leadership positions, as opposed to four granted to their counterparts. This has a potential to reverse the programme of social cohesion in our beautiful country.” The bill will now go back to the National Council of Provinces for approval. Questions on the cost analysis of the bill sent to Legadima Meso, communications head at the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, were not answered. Aaron Messelaar, high commissioner of the Griqua Royal House, said it would be difficult for the government to give Khoisan leaders the same recognition as kings of other cultures. “I don’t see it happening. It is costing taxpayer money and we will most likely not get there. However, what we want is the recognition as the first nation. Let us start there first, then we can look at the monetary issues at a later stage,” he said. Messelaar also said once the Khoi and San were recognised as a first nation, it would pave the way for equitable funding. “The government would have to find the money at a later stage,” he said. Economist Dawie Roodt said the country could not afford another layer of governance. “At this stage, I am almost certain that our government cannot afford it. Our economy is struggling to grow and at this stage we need to address some of the challenges, not create more.” Sammy Claassen, spokesperson of the Khoisan Defence Group, said the government should address corruption. “Maybe then we will have enough money to contribute to kings and chiefs and ensure that there is uniformity and equity in all our traditional groups. My biggest fear is that this bill will be watered down and its effect minimal.” Claassen, also an ANC councillor in the West Coast, said the Khoisan should be recognised as first nation before any other legal procedure. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus