On Thursday, the State pointed out four aspects in Daniels, the Spier Wine Estate’s maintenance man’s testimony that were corroborated by forensic experts as opposed to the version of murder accused Jason Rohde. Susan was found hanging at the back of the bathroom door of the suite she and Rohde were sharing at the Spier Wine Estate in July, 2016. An electrical cord was tied to her neck. READ MORE: 'I am not a murderer', Jason #Rohde tells court It is the State’s case that Rohde manually strangled her and staged the suicide. In Rohde’s version his wife was crouched at an angle with her feet touching the ground, knees in the air and her buttocks close to the bathroom door. He said her upper body was in a forward position. He said the cord around her neck was tight and took Daniels time to loosen. “There was a lot of tension on the knot - there was no play,” he had told the court. However, State prosecutor advocate Louis van Niekerk said both State forensic pathologist Dr Akmal Khan and defence expert Dr Reggie Perumal opposed Rohde’s version. According to the commonalities, the ligature on Susan’s neck was incomplete. “None of them saw traces or mention of double-track ligature mark, no points of suspension and no knot imprint noted on any side or behind the neck,” said Van Niekerk. Rohde denied he said there was a double strand. Van Niekerk said: “The State will argue that all of this as described in your evidence in chief and put to State witnesses is a lie. You are making it up.   “Your version simply can’t be true. What really happened is based on a single strand which Daniels saw and is evidence of Khan, as depicted on photos he took of ligature marks, and is not compatible at all with what you have described.” Van Niekerk also questioned Rohde on why he did not include details of the fight in a police statement; instead, he said they had a “disagreement”. On the eve of Susan’s Rohde’s death, she and her husband got in a physical fight after she had caught him texting his mistress, Jolene Alterskye. Jason said he grabbed her by the neck, but not in a throttling movement to get her to move away from the door so that he could leave the room. During that fight she had fallen and injured her toes and above her left eye. In a family meeting he was asked by Susan’s father, Neville Holmes, if he had killed Susan. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus