Party leader Mmusi Maimane at the weekend revealed part of the DA’s plans for next year’s general elections after its federal executive meeting. Maimane said the party would focus on Gauteng, the Northern Cape and the Western Cape with these being their “strategic” provinces. He said the plan was to become the biggest party in Gauteng and the Northern Cape and form a government while retaining the Western Cape with an increased majority. RELATED: Mmusi places a muzzle on his 'amateurs' “In addition, we plan to substantially increase our percentage of the national votes cast. This means the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal, the North West and the Eastern Cape will contribute significantly to the growth targets of the party based on our strong structures and electoral performance,” he said. In recent by-elections, he said, the DA had grown significantly in both rural and urban areas - in suburbs and in townships. Recently in the Eastern Cape, the party grew from 88% to 96.01% in the Ward 18 by-election in Buffalo City Municipality, and from 6.24% to 24.94% in Ward 9, Ingquza Hill Local Municipality. But in the Western Cape, the only province run by the DA, the party saw double digit figure losses to the ANC in two by-elections in traditional DA-strongholds. The ANC grew by 17% in Oudtshoorn and 11% in Saldanha Bay. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said there was still time for the DA to implement its recovery plan. “But the chances are slim, given the sentiments of voters in the province. "I don’t think the DA is imploding, but if you are talking about getting more voters, the DA is restraining their voter growth." Mathekga said although there were ambitious leaders in Gauteng, voters still had a keen liking for David Makhura and especially President Cyril Ramaphosa. “The ANC is currently at just more than 50% in Gauteng, but with the right people they will take it. The DA has leaders like Herman Mashaba and Makashule Gana, but Gana is very young. He has not been in leadership positions. At best he may be mayor before wanting to be a candidate for premier. You’ve never run a spaza shop, but you want to run the whole food chain. It won’t work,” Mathekga said. On the Northern Cape, Mathekga said: “Its a small province in terms of numbers. Not even John Block’s demise affected the ANC. The ANC will take it.” Bonginkosi Madikizela, Western Cape leader, said the province had been named the best province by the Auditor-General and StatsSA.“We have our problems, but through it all we have reached so much. “The Patricia de Lille matter does come up at our public meetings, but people are more interested in the bread and butter issues,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus