The prayer service, held on Sunday in Delft, was organised by Women United and attended by, among others, Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo. “All this violence has left many losing their loved ones; somewhere in this area there is someone who has lost a father, or a child or a brother,” she said. READ MORE: Cape taxi commuters told ‘not to panic’ over recent violence “We are the women everyone has been waiting for. We can make an impact. It is all up to us to make a difference in South Africa,” she said. At least 10 people have died as a result of the ongoing violence in the area. Mbombo said this was a clear indication of the many social ills in the country. Programme director of the prayer service Ndumi Mvinjelwa said: “Enough is enough. We women are the life givers, we are going to give life to peace. We are calling for peace not only in Delft but around the whole country,” she said. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said that when it came to taxi disputes there was not much the City could do. “As the City we have a responsibility to do daily enforcements. What we’ve picked up is that the initial response to the taxi violence was very weak. This is the police’s domain. They should be investigating this.” At the moment, taxi drivers are gearing up for a showdown with the City of Cape Town as two major taxi associations threaten to cripple the city’s public transport system if their demands are not met. Codeta spokesperson Besuthu Ndungeni said: “At the moment we are still in consultation with the City. They have not provided us with any indication as to whether they will meet our demands or not.” Ndungeni also refuted claims that taxi services would be suspended today, 4 June. “No those are rumours our services will operate (today) as usual,” he said. At the heart of the dispute is the renewal of an operating contract between a company called Joint Venture, made up of Golden Arrow, Codeta in Khayelitsha as well as Route 6 Taxi Association in Mitchells Plain. The company is responsible for operating the MyCiTi buses on the N2 between Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain to the CBD, serving 4 000 commuters daily. The build-up to the withdrawal of taxis was prompted by Codeta’s refusal to sign a contract to extend operations, even though Route 6 and Golden Arrow overruled the association, ensuring that MyCiTi gets its operating licences. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus