The project to collate the often “hidden” history of black rugby in South Africa until the sport’s unification in 1992 will culminate on Heritage Day (September 24) with the planned opening of a new installation at The Springbok Experience Rugby Museum at the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town. The aim is to capture the A to Z of black rugby prior to unity. The biographies of all 409 players to have appeared for the pre-unity black, coloured and non-racial rugby boards will be featured, as well the stories of clubs, trophies, administrators, federations and other personalities or events that may have shaped the development of black rugby. “The story of black rugby has increasingly been brought out of the shadows by the work we have done at The Springbok Experience and in the heritage field over recent years, but there is still not a single point of reference where anyone can go and discover the hidden story,” said SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux. “We want to create a ‘one-stop shop’ where it is possible to access the stories and records of all the significant people and institutions that went into creating the vibrant story of black rugby in South Africa in the pre-democracy era. “The resource we will have at the end of the process we plan to make available in a number of ways, with a permanent installation at the museum.” Dr Hendrik Snyders, SA Rugby’s heritage manager, is leading the project. “We have mapped out a draft list of around 1 000 entries that we believe merit inclusion, and I am sure that list will grow,” said Snyders. “We are appealing for the support of the public in making that history as deep and as rich as possible by sending us information on their rugby history in the pre-unity era. “We are very keen on photographs, newspaper cuttings, programmes, old playing jerseys from their club, provincial or national career and any brochures or other mementoes that may help us tell the story.” Roux thanked the National Lotteries Commission for the financial support. Snyders added that information can be sent to him at hendriks@sarugby.co.za. "Otherwise, if people want to deliver physical content or want to have a proper conversation with regards to the detail of the project, they can visit me at the Springbok Experience Rugby Museum in the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town," he said. Material can also be delivered/mailed to the Department of Communications, SARU House, Tygerberg Park, 163 Uys Krige Road, Plattekloof, Cape Town 7500. For those who want to use the regular mail service can post any information to our head office mail address: Dr. Hendrik Snyders, SARU P.O. Box 15929 Panorama 7506. "We would also like to build a database of potential informants for future use and would therefore appreciate full contact details of such persons." Theolin Tembo and African News Agency (ANA) Cape Argus