It not only expands the perspective of an individual, but also opens a variety of avenues for upward mobility. For this reason, children should be given the right platforms and adequate infrastructure to ensure that they learn and flourish. RELATED: #16DaysForYouth: Rising against hunger and poverty Bambanani, a crèche in Proteasdorp in Kleinmond, is a centre that strives to create a conducive learning environment that conquers the potential barriers that language can create. Bambanani Baby Crèche first opened its doors in 2003 as a response to an appeal from the local municipality. Many of the working parents of this settlement needed a centre that would take care of their children from an early age, as they did not have viable alternatives. Community leaders rallied and found a suitable location that would be easily accessible to the community. Heart FM visited Bambanani Crèche on day 11 of its #16DaysForYouth initiative so that they could lend a helping hand to this remarkable school. A drywall was installed to function as a partition that would create a more intimate learning environment, and to make it easier for the teachers to engage with the learners, and to mediate knowledge without any further disturbance or delay. A new geyser was fitted and locals were treated to a meal of warm stew, soft drinks and dessert. “This partitioning will help us to control noise levels between the classes. Our classes take place at the same time, but using isiXhosa and Afrikaans separately. With this wall we won’t have to wait for one class to finish in order for another one to begin. It will also help us to control the chaos of children running across to the wrong class,” school principal Xolelwa Twani said. Just four staff members collectively teach, clean and cook for the learners. The crèche currently has 34 children enrolled. There is an urgent need for early childhood development (ECD) centres to be recognised and funded to accommodate children from all walks of life. This includes provision of infrastructure and funds to support day-to-day running of the centres and equipping educators with the necessary skills needed to cater to the needs of children in the poorer communities. Education is perceived to be the key to success, yet communities are still struggling to establish and sustain the spaces where education is meant to bloom. @16DaysForYouth Cape Argus