In the financial year which ended in March, a total of 1934 cases of sexual abuse were registered with the Department of Social Development (DSD), as well as 1979 cases of deliberate neglect, 876 reports of physical abuse and 356 cases of emotional abuse against children. These figures only reflect the number of reports filed with the DSD and exclude the cases reported to the SAPS and those which go unreported. In the light of International Children’s Day and Child Protection Week, the DSD decided to inject R694 million into child protection services to prioritise the fight against child abuse. READ MORE - #InternationalChildrensDay: SA kids are at risk “The department has allocated R694m this year to tackle child abuse, neglect and abandonment, which is the largest share of our budget,” said MEC for Social Development (DSD) Albert Fritz. “This funding allows us to provide 807 departmental social work professionals who specialise in child protection and other child services, rendering services to the poorest communities. “Violence against children should have no place in our society, and I condemn these incidents. “However, government cannot do it alone, parents continue to play the most important role in ensuring children are safe, and protected.” Fritz said the theme for child protection week was “Child Protection is Everyone’s Responsibility” and called on parents and the public to report any cases of child abuse to a social worker at any of the local and regional DSD offices. The DSD can also be contacted on 0800 220 250. As part of the focus on the girl-child during Child Protection Week, Fritz also donated 140 sanitary pad packs in Laingsburg and Beaufort West. Fritz said access to sanitary pads made a difference in the lives of girls, including ensuring they stayed in school and had dignity. “To find more sustainable solutions, the ministry is in the early stages of planning and consulting with stakeholders from the private sector, NGOs and other government spheres to look into broader issues of sexual and reproductive health for girls. “Our work will include the possibility of formulating a provincial strategy on the roll-out of free sanitary pads to the poor in the Western Cape.” Minister of Social Development Susan Shabangu addressed the closing procedures of Child Protection Week at St Augustine’s Resort in Modderpoort, Ladybrand, in the Free State under the theme “Let us all protect children, moving South Africa Forward”. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus