“We’re a lot (more) nervous considering this is the first time we’re actually making it this far in the competition,” said Leigh Walker from Rhodes High. “It’s sort of like mixed emotions, but we’re more happy than anything else cause it’s quite an accomplishment. We’ve been reading the newspaper week after week and to know that hard work has paid off, it’s an amazing feeling. I just can’t describe it.” The team has been using the opportunities the quiz has afforded them not only to learn, but also to suss out the competition. They went up against South Peninsula High School Team A on Good Hope FM and got to see what lies ahead for them when they face off against Steenberg High Team A, and Maitland High Team C in the semi-final at the Baxter Theatre on September 1. “We just want to say that we’re going to do our absolute best. Congratulations to them, but we’re excited that we are joining them. It’s gonna be fun, we’re excited to see how it’s all going to play out,” said Rhodes pupil Palesa Chikane about the experience so far. While the team is competing in the second semi-final, the other semi-final will include South Peninsula High Team C, Maitland High Team B, Vista High Team A, and Sibelius High Team C. The teams competing in the 10th Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz are hoping to win R35 000 for their school and R3 000 per member of the winning team. Also up for grabs are two bursaries offered by the Community Chest. Good Hope FM has also come aboard as this year’s radio partner for the competition, with the station’s Nigel Pierce being the quiz master for the finals. This will also be the first time that the top two teams of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz will go on to compete in the National High School Quiz on September 27. This will be held in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title; R20 000 for the school, R5 000 for each team member, and R5 000 for the team’s educator or coach. @TheCapeArgus  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus