This was the message from KZN-based entrepreneur Andile Khumalo, the chief executive of MSG Afrika and I Am An Entrepreneur. Khumalo was a guest speaker at the Old Mutual Entrepreneurship Summit and Supplier Show-Case 2018, hosted by Old Mutual at the firm’s head office in Pinelands on Tuesday. Khumalo said funders were looking for something unique before they would provide a start-up with funding. “Do yourself a favour before you go and submit your business plan: prove that your business plan works,” he said. Khumalo said entrepreneurs needed to test whether there was a market for their product - say, a hair-cut product - by selling it in a local neighbourhood. “By the time you take that business plan to a funder, you are bringing along a case. ‘Here are my orders: they were 50, and I sold all 50 in two weeks, and I have another 25 ladies who want stock.’ If you able to prove your business plan to a funder, you stand a much better chance,” he said. Peter Moyo, Old Mutual’s chief executive, said driving financial inclusion among entrepreneurs and small business owners would ensure that they were equipped with the knowledge to transform their businesses into productive and sustainable contributors to the continent’s economy. “A value chain nurtured and supported by big businesses on the continent will assist in tackling the critical challenges prominent in the region, particularly the need to create a significant number of jobs for the continent’s booming population,” said Moyo. He said the small, medium and micro enterprise sector accounts for between 55% and 65% of economy-wide employment and is a critical interface between inclusive economic growth and the structure of the domestic economy. “For this reason, African entrepreneurship is central to Africa’s future prosperity. The most significant business opportunities in the coming decade will be created by Africans who start businesses, generate jobs and wealth, and capture growth opportunities. “Developing entrepreneurship across the continent is, therefore, a critical component in achieving these mutually beneficial shared-value goals,” said Moyo. @TheCapeArgus  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus