This is according to Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Senzeni Zokwana, who addressed the media last Thursday. “Elements of sustainability are a concern to any department, but must be engaged looking at the socio-economic impact. When we fish we should do so as not to deplete future stock, but also for people to make a living,” he said. On August 22, his department will be appearing in court in a civil matter over the rock lobster allocation. The World Wide Fund for Nature SA (WWF-SA) approached the court alleging that the total allowable catch (TAC) for the rock lobster, as set out by the department, was too high, thus undermining its long-term survival, and also disregarding fishermen who depend on the valuable resource. WWF is accusing the department of failing to look at the scientific calculations when setting the TAC. Zokwana said both the department and WWF wanted the same thing, but they were going about on different platforms. He also said he was concerned about the support of fishing rights group Small Scale Fisheries Collective (SASSFC) for WWF in the legal dispute. SASSFC has applied to be admitted as friends of the court. “The government is acting in their interest. Allocation of fishing rights to the previously disadvantaged sections of our society is my priority,” he said. Zokwana announced an advisory panel as the appellant authority in respect of the rock lobster appeals received during the Fishing Rights Allocation Process for 2015/2016. Advocate Shaheen Moolla, attorney Mamakhe Mdhluli and Professor Julian Smith will be assisting Zokwana in deciding and releasing his decisions on appeals in the WCRL fishery sector before August 31. SASSFC questioned the minister’s actions on this while there is a pending court case over allocation. SASSFC co-chairperson Pedro Garcia said the timing was bad. “The high court decision could influence the appeals process based on the outcome. The court could decide there should be a reduction in the WCRL TAC,” Garcia said. “We’re also not happy with Moolla’s appointment as there is a lot of controversy around him.” Moolla’s name has been linked to controversy where he was alleged to have been a middleman been between black quota holders and commercial fishermen. Acting chief director in the department, Asanda Njobeni said the rock lobster appeals and the WWF matter were two separate things. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Town