The competition, with the central topic of “learning to be a global citizen in the 21st century”, is expected to involve around 120 schools and 72 000 pupils between the ages of 12 and 18. Entrants will be separated into two categories: Grade 7-9 and Grade 10-12. Pupils can choose to write on one of three topics. The essays will be marked by the children’s teachers who will select a small number to pass on to organisers. The top three from each category will then be in line to receive prizes including iPads, mountain bikes and Robben Island excursions. Principals from as far afield as Simon’s Town attended the event yesterday afternoon, showing that the competition had generated interest throughout the area. With schools from a range of different communities and cultures likely to participate, event organisers are optimistic that the challenge will inspire many schoolchildren to consider the challenges they face in their own lives, as well as the importance of education in overcoming those difficulties. With schools from disadvantaged communities also expected to take part, chairperson of Al-Ikhlaas Academia Library Elias Parker commented on their commitment to making a major difference in the lives of children who miss out on opportunities like these: “We will go the extra mile for disadvantaged children to make sure those who don’t get the chance to access these facilities in their daily lives get an opportunity to come (to the library).” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Keynote speaker and WCED chief director of curriculum management and teacher development Peter Beets emphasised the importance of creating an education platform suitable for all. Beets added that more needed to be done in the four core areas of education: collaboration, communication, critical thinking and creativity. Event organisers supported Beets’ opinion, saying essays would be marked not solely on the quality of the language, but also on the complexity of ideas and evidence of thorough research. @peter197t  peter.thomas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus