Following an investigation by Worcester detectives, members of the JCY gang, accused of killing members of the Uitbyter gang at Avian Park in Worcester during a shooting in March 2017, were found guilty and were sentenced on Friday. Joachim Dudley, Waldo Julies and Lungisani Tsetse were in a war with the Uitbyters over drug trade and territory in Avian Park. The sentences were imposed under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca). Dudley was sentenced to 10 years for being a member of a gang and performing activities of the gang, 22 years for the murder of John Wisani, eight years for the attempted murder of Kerwin Visagie plus 10 years for the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. The sentences are set to run concurrently with the sentence for the murder charge. Julies was sentenced to 10 years for being a member of a gang and performing activities of the gang, 40 years for the murders of Charles Januarie and Jubelian Arendse, plus 10 years for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. His sentences will also run concurrently. Tsetse received 10 years for being a gang member and performing activities of the gang, 40 years for the murders of Januarie and Arendse, eight years for the attempted murder of Cetywayo Mketsu and 10 years for illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. State prosecutor advocate Christiaan de Jongh told the court that gang activities brought about fear and intimidation among law-abiding citizens. Provincial commissioner, Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula commended the investigating team for their dedication and commitment in apprehending these gangsters and removing them from the Worcester community. He also welcomed the successful convictions and sentences. Meanwhile, Worcester police arrested seven suspects following three separate shooting incidents between rival groups at the River View Flats. The suspects were due in court today on charges of attempted murder, and possession of illegal firearms, ammunition and drugs. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus