The inclusion of QR codes into high-school textbooks by Media Works, which publishes CAPS-aligned books, has combined technology with the needs of educators and pupils by creating an audio-visual aid pupils can access with their phones. The QR codes, known as “Bubbles”, on the pages link to short, interactive modules that help them gain a deeper understanding of the material they’re being taught through audio-visual snippets. Excom Publishers managing director Yvette Russell said pupils could simply scan the codes using a free QR reader or the camera on a smartphone, or they could click on the active links in the e-book versions to access the additional information. “The feedback we have received since this project was launched has been overwhelmingly positive. Educators and learners find it easy to use and, for many learners, having concepts explained in a different way improves their comprehension,” she said. “Children learn in different ways. Auditory learners by sound, visual learners by sight and kinesthetic learners through physical activities and engagement. Bubbles cater for each of these learning styles and have been shown to help learners understand and retain information with ease.” Russell said bubbles were typically 60 to 90 seconds in length, which helped those with short attention spans, and were great for revision for those who had missed out on class or misunderstood concepts. The books are available for English, life orientation and, soon, also for economic and management sciences. The company is discussing having the books included as government-issued textbooks at schools. “The Bubbles do not duplicate information provided in the textbook. Instead, they reiterate important concepts and provide new and accessible examples and applications. Each Bubble also offers short self-evaluation questions for learners to complete. “For 2019, Afrikaans versions of these books will be available, with new CAPS-compliant editions being added to the range over time.” Next year, Excom will be piloting extended educator guides for the Grade 9 CAPS-compliant EMS and Grade 10 life orientation textbooks to test the market. Educators can get the books from several book stores including CNA, or order directly from orders@excompublishers.co.za. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus