The Control of Tobacco Products and Electronic Delivery Systems Bill, published by the Department of Health in May for comment, seeks to ban the display of all tobacco products and cigarettes. Smokers could face a three-month prison sentence for smoking in public, and dedicated smoking areas in restaurants would be removed. The public has until Wednesday to comment on the bill. Since it was first mooted, the tobacco industry has been lobbying against it. The industry has produced an ad campaign promoting freedom of choice. The Vapour Product Association of SA’s chief executive, Zodwa Velleman, said the bill threatened to deprive millions of citizens of a safer alternative to smoking. She said e-cigarettes were 95% less harmful. Velleman said the vaping market was worth more than R1billion and supported 4000 full-time jobs. However, Independent Community Pharmacy Association (ICPA) chief executive Jackie Maimin said tobacco companies were trying to find a new niche in their marketing. “Tobacco companies are powerful. They can no longer advertise the lifestyle and the red cigarette boxes, so now they are shifting tactics. I don’t believe that people have a choice as they market it; about 70% of smokers wish to stop smoking, 35% go on to try to stop every year but only 3% successfully quit. I don’t believe that the addictiveness of nicotine can go away so easily,” she said. Maimin said she was concerned about the alternatives brought to the market, such as vaping. “This is introducing nicotine to youngsters and making it appear socially acceptable,” she said. Maimin said she didn’t believe studies on the economic impact the proposed legislation would have. “If the same land used to grow tobacco was used to plant food crops, about 20 million people in this country would be fed. Also, one in every two people who smokes dies of smoke-related diseases,” said Maimin. Tobacco Institute of Southern Africa chairperson Francois van der Merwe said the sector directly and indirectly supported more than 108 000 jobs in the country, of which 8 000-10 000 jobs are on farms in deep rural areas contributing more than R17 billion a year in excise tax alone to the fiscus. “There is no ‘one size fits all’ in tobacco regulation. For example, how will a street hawker sell his cigarettes if he is not allowed to display these products?” Last week, the SA Informal Traders Association (Saita), conducted a walkabout in Khayelitsha. Saita president Rosheda Muller said informal traders could face a five-year prison sentence if they displayed cigarettes. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus