The members were buzzing to find out information about the semi-finals and finals that will be taking place at the Baxter Theatre on September 1, to which the public is invited to attend. Semi-final one will include South Peninsula High Team C, Maitland High Team B, Vista High Team A, and Sibelius High Team C. Semi-final two will include South Peninsula High Team A, Rhodes High Team B, Steenberg High Team A, and Maitland High Team C. While in the newsroom, the teams said they were proud of their achievements but also ready to beat their competitors and go for the top spot. The teams competing in the 10th Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz are hoping to win R35 000 for their school and R3 000 per member of the winning team. Also up for grabs are two bursaries offered by the Community Chest. “We are delighted to once again be a partner and sponsor of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market Quiz, especially as this event celebrates its auspicious 10th birthday,” said head of sustainability for the Food Lover’s Market Group, Andrew Millson. “Our partnership with the Cape Argus has always had a beautiful synchronicity as Food Lover’s Market’s roots are in the Western Cape, much like the Cape Argus. Our close ties with the Cape Town community, formed through initiatives such as the quiz, fulfils our aim of creating meaningful and sustainable social impact. “Moreover, it is nothing short of inspiring to see enthusiastic young people challenge each other week after week, in such a value-adding way,” Millson added. Good Hope FM radio has also come aboard as this year’s radio partner for the competition, with the station’s Nigel Pierce being the quizmaster for the finals. Two of the teams are set to make an appearance on the station this afternoon, to show how tense the quiz can get. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This will also be the first time the top two teams of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz go on to compete in the National High School Quiz. The National High School Quiz final takes place on September 27, in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20 000 for the school, R5 000 for each team member and R5 000 for the team’s educator or coach. @TheCapeArgus  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus