This means the residents can also request the City of Cape Town to provide them with transitional housing, located closer to Woodstock. They will remain at their homes in Bromwell Street until the court hears the new applications. After eviction notices were lodged, the City said the only relocation area they have for the residents was Wolwerivier. It is a relocation area located 27km outside the city, far from schools and health facilities. NGOs Ndifuna Ukwazi and Reclaim said Wolwerivier was a “dumping ground” for people. It has been likened to Blikkiesdorp in Delft, where people were temporary relocated 10 years ago, but were still there. The lawyer representing the Bromwell Street residents, Disha Govender, said residents wanted alternative housing near to where they staying. “If people move away they will be uprooted. The City has an obligation to provide housing to Bromwell residents. In our new application, we are asking the City to provide the residents with transitional housing close to the community where they are staying,” she said. The City previously said they did not have emergency housing closer than Wolwerivier but Govender pointed out that last year the City announced it would be building transitional housing in Woodstock and Salt River. The developments announced included affordable, social, and inclusionary housing. The affordable housing sites were: Drury Street and New Market Street in Cape Town, and Earl Street, Mountain Road and Pickwick Street in Woodstock. Another site for future housing was Canterbury Road in Cape Town. Pine Road, Dillon Lane, and Bromwell Street were identified for social housing. Sites that would be developed for transitional housing were James Street and Pickwick Road in Salt River. Bromwell Street resident Graham Beukes, 37, said he was born in the road. “We grew up in that community. “I currently stay five minutes from where I work. I have been staying with my elderly mom, so if we move, it means our family will be separated.” @RusanaPhilander rusanaphilander1@gmail.com Cape Argus