South Peninsula Team A who walked away with the victory, and the team received vouchers from Food Lover’s Market. Good Hope FM is the radio partner for the 10th birthday edition of the competition, with Pierce being the quiz master for the finals. There will also be exciting performances that will take place at the Baxter on the day of the semi-finals and finals. After South Peninsula Team A won, the team of Mugammed Noordien, Lindiwe Traut-Naidoo, Faatimah Schloss and Waseelah Edwards said they were looking forward to the semis and finals. Faatimah cheekily warned other teams to watch out. “Good luck to everybody,” Lindiwe added. “We know everyone is going to work as hard as they can.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To watch the video, use the AR functionality on the IOL app and hold your phone over the picture above. All eight teams will be competing in the semi-finals and finals that will be taking place at the Baxter Theatre on September 1, which the public is invited to join. Semi-final one will include South Peninsula High Team C, Maitland High Team B, Vista High Team A and Sibelius High Team C. Semi-final Two will include South Peninsula High Team A, Rhodes High Team B, Steenberg High Team A, and Maitland High Team C. The teams competing in the 10th Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz are hoping to win R35 000 for their school and R3 000 per winning team member. Also up for grabs are two bursaries offered by the Community Chest. The top two teams will then move onto the National High School Quiz final taking place on September 27, and will be held in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20 000 for the school, R5 000 for each team member and R5 000 for the team’s educator or coach.   @TheCapeArgus  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus