Addressing those gathered at the march, the chairperson of Sanco, peninsula region, Connie August, said that the aim of the march was to bring hope to the victims of gender-based violence and to urge the Justice and Security Cluster in Khayelitsha, which includes the police, prosecutors and the courts, to effectively deal with the perpetrators. “Violence against women and children has tremendous costs to our communities, and societies for public well-being, health and safety,” said August. “Our schools are being destroyed, because the future of our children is destroyed,” added August. They cried unto the police commanders, saying their police officers are not working hard to help them, quoting recent incidents that happened in the areas of Khayelitsha. The murder of Sinoxolo Mafevuka, was murdered and left in a communal toilet. A few days after her death, a 14-year old-girl was raped, and the perpetrator is out on bail, a woman and her 2-year-old baby were attacked, the attacker raped the mother and killed the baby. Khayelitsha cluster commander, Johan Brand received the memorandum and assured that he would do his utmost to ensure that when women reported assault such as abuse or rape they were assisted by female police officers. “The most important thing now, is to let our people know that we want to work with them to fight gender-based violence and crime in our areas,” said Brand. Some of the demands include recommendations implemented by the Khayelitsha Commission of Inquiry. These recommendations require the police to take specific measures to address domestic violence and address systemic problems with its detective services. Second demand is that family violence, child protection and sexual offences units must operate in all three police stations in Khayelitsha. Gender-based violence cases must be followed, not thrown out of court without proper investigation. Visible policing in informal settlements must be prioritised. There must be a strategic plan to defeat gender-based violence and this plan must be public. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police officers must work with the community to defeat gender-based violence. Social Justice Coalition member, Nontando Mhlabeni said: “The effects of violence can remain with women and children for a lifetime, and can pass from one generation to another.” She said studies showed that children who had witnessed or been subjected to violence were more likely to become victims or abusers themselves. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus