In Cape Town, a handful of people calling itself People Against Petrol and Paraffin Price Increase (Papppi) marched to Parliament demanding a decrease in fuel prices. The group vowed to mobilise people to block roads and major highways. There were similar marches in KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng, North West, Eastern Cape and Northern Cape. The local group marched from Keizergracht Street to Parliament, lobbying people to join the march. Marchers were carrying placards written, “Together we can end high fuel prices” and “Fuel price must fall”. The group said people are currently paying the most ever for fuel and it directly impacts the cost of living. Provincial regional convener of Pappi Achmat Abrahams said they asked Parliament to receive their memorandum and submit it to the minister of energy and President Cyril Ramaphosa. “Our demand is that we want a moratorium to be placed on petrol price increases, and that there should be no increases. “We feel that once our moratorium has been put in place, Pappi will approach government departments to reduce fuel costs.” The head of the energy minister’s parliamentary office, Cindy August, received the memorandum at Parliament. In Durban, a hearse and coffin symbolised the call for the “death” of high fuel prices. A small but vocal group of marchers made their way to the Durban City Hall. Speaking along the route, Pappi national co-ordinator Visvin Reddy said it was time to tell the government “enough is enough”. “There should be no further increases. The time has come for fuel prices to come down in this country. We are calling on the president to issue a moratorium that there will be no further increases.” He said the increases in fuel, VAT and most recently bread, had hit consumers hard, particularly the poor. “We cannot accept these high prices any longer. “We will stand together, every South African, and unite against these high fuel prices. If we don’t do something about it, these prices will continue to increase.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Consumers are reeling following an increase in VAT and steep petrol hikes, with knock-on effects being felt in every sector. Motorists are currently paying R15.43 a litre in coastal areas and R16.02 inland. South Africans have experienced increases in all fuel types since January. Petrol has increased by as much as R1.60 (inland) and R1.50 (coastal), diesel has spiked by R1.73 and paraffin is up by as much as R1.12 (inland) and R1.09 (coastal). VAT increased from 14 to 15% in April. On Friday, Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene released a report on possible additions to the current list of 19 zero-rated VAT items to help ease the burden on the poor. While consumers wait to see if those recommendations will be adopted, the price of taxi fares also increased this month. * Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA) @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus