When the quiz first started, ten years ago, a total of 19 schools comprising 47 teams participated. The winning school for 2008 was Belgravia High School and it walked away with a Chevy Spark, while the pupils each received R2000 in cash. In it’s 10th birthday year, over 100 teams have entered the competition from 52 schools. With the second bout of knockouts having already taken place, the finals are only weeks away. Good Hope FM has also come on board as this year’s radio partner for the competition, with the station’s Nigel Pierce being quizmaster for the finals on September 1 at the Baxter Theatre. “We are thrilled to be part of the Cape Argus Food Lover's Market High Schools Quiz once again. “It is always encouraging to see the eagerness of learners to participate in this quiz, the camaraderie among peers and the excitement to read a newspaper,” the station said. This year’s winning school will receive R35000 and the winning team members will each receive R3000. Up for grabs are also two bursaries from the Community Chest. Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley said how proud he was of the way the contest had grown. “This can be attributed to the hard work going on behind the scenes and is testimony to the passion the Cape Argus team has for an event that benefits high school pupils in general,” he said. “This year is particularly special because for the first time we’ll be having our local winners compete nationally.” Eight school teams from across the country will battle it out against the best of the best at the National High School Quiz finals on September 27 in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20000 for the school, R5 000 for each team member and R5 000 for the team’s coach. The national runner-up will receive R10000 for the school, R2 500 for each team member and R2 500 for the coach. Hartley said that every year there was a sharp increase in the quality of the contestants taking part. Asked where he saw the quiz being in the next 10 years, he wasn’t scared to share his vision. “I’d like to see the quiz become and an all-Africa event televised throughout the continent,” he said. @TheCapeArgus  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus