Hundreds of teachers, governing-body representatives and parents from Khayelitsha schools marched in support of safer schools and communities. This came after nine schools were robbed at gunpoint, including Ummangaliso Primary School, Noluthando School of the Deaf, Ntshayelelo Primary School, Lwandle Primary School, Hopolang Primary School, Sivile Primary School, Sobambisana Primary School, Manyano High School and Sangweni High School. The marchers were stopped by police at Keizersgracht Street in District Six because their permit to march had expired, but they still managed to have their memorandum delivered to Premier Helen Zille. They were planning to march to the legislature. Schäfer said while she fully supported calls for safer schools, she bemoaned in the strongest possible terms protest action during school hours, especially illegal protest action. “I condemn the politically driven attempts by ANC-affiliated organisations to deflect from the ANC-run national government’s mandate over policing and ensuring safer communities,” she said. “Schools have safety committees and safety plans, and have employed security (not armed security) where possible. We are also installing CCTV cameras to try to curb the break-ins, but these cameras are valuable and criminals actually land up targeting schools to steal these cameras. “We are doing as much as we can as an education department to try and protect our schools, we simply do not have the legislative mandate, security expertise or budget to guarantee learner safety from armed criminals that are preying on our schools.” ANC provincial spokesperson Yonela Diko said the party supported any community march that sought to “make everyone pause and take notice of their challenges”. The march demands included proper fencing, guards and patrols. SANCO committee member Fundeka Qolo said she was concerned about an alleged syndicate targeting schools in Khayelitsha. “We marched to hand over the memorandum to the premier of the Western Cape, in line with the law. “We wrote to the district and we were directed to MEC Schäfer, but our letter was not acknowledged by the office of the MEC, hence we went further to the premier,” she said, adding the department must not fold arms until a learner or teacher is shot dead within school premises. @SISOKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus