The Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry hosted a Transport and Transport Infrastructure Portfolio Committee meeting yesterday on the impact of the ban on high cube containers, which is set to come into effect on January 1. Terry Gale, the chairperson of the Exporters Club Western Cape, said it was vital for the industry to reach an agreement. Gale said South African transport companies would be affected by the African Continental Free Trade Area and would soon be transporting more containers across the country’s borders. “There is an incredible potential. We can’t say, ‘We’re sorry, you can’t use your trailers, because trailers in Zimbabwe are different to South Africa.’ Every bit of trade that we have we’ve got to fight for,” he said. The Cape Chamber has raised a number of concerns about the ban on high cube containers and has warned of potential chaos on the roads and damage to vital fruit exports if the Department of Transport bans the transport of containers on standard trailers next year. Janine Myburgh, the president of the chamber, said that when the shipping containers, which conform to international standards, were loaded on to normal trailers, they exceeded the maximum height permitted on South Africa’s roads by 30cm, and the department wanted all standard trailers to be replaced with special low-bed trailers. In a letter to the department recently, Myburgh said the original concern with the new containers was that, because they were higher than the old ones, there could be a problem with unstable loads, particularly in cross winds. “However, these containers have been in use for more than seven years, and we are unaware of any incidents or accidents involving unstable loads in the new containers. It would therefore seem that there is no justification for the original fears.” She added that another problem was the high cost of converting to low-bed trailers. “The cost per trailer is estimated at about R300000. Many of the companies which transport the containers of export fruit are small businesses run by the previously disadvantaged and operate just two or three trucks. "They simply cannot afford the conversion costs, and recovering them from an agricultural industry that has just experienced the worst drought in more than 100 years will not be possible.”  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus