At least two cases of human trafficking were reported in Cape Town in the last week and are being investigated by Hawks. The latest case involves two boys who were reportedly trafficked after responding to job offers that never materialised. A teenager is expected to plead guilty today to several charges of human trafficking, rape and statutory rape after he and his four co-accused allegedly imprisoned several women, including a 14-year-old, in a brothel in Springs, east of Johannesburg. It is claimed in the indictment which was handed to the North Gauteng High Court that the unsuspecting victims were invited to a house. Once there, they were locked up and forced to use drugs. The alleged kingpin, a 44-year-old Nigerian citizen, allegedly raped the victims himself before he forced them to work as prostitutes. It is expected he and a 43-year-old Nigel man will plead not guilty to the charges against them, as well as two South African women, aged 23 and 26. Hawks spokesperson Philani Nkwalase said the case is currently under investigation and two people, John Chijoke Ndum, 35 and Ebellenna Agbim, 38, were arrested last week regarding a second case of trafficking of a 26-year-old woman. Deputy Justice Minister John Jeffery said on Monday South Africa and certain international partners would focus on formulating a response to the trafficking of children and young people. Jeffrey was delivering an address at a workshop hosted for the prevention and combating of trafficking of persons at the Iziko Slave Lodge in Cape Town on Monday, which was World Day against Trafficking in Persons. “Human trafficking is a global phenomenon and is a devastating crime for its victims. It affects each and every country. “Children make up almost a third of all human trafficking victims worldwide,” the deputy minister said. Jeffery said a provincial task team and a number of provincial rapid response teams had been set up to deal with suspected trafficking in persons as well as pending trafficking cases. * Additional reporting by Zelda Venter. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus