The home was illegally occupied by activists two years ago, demanding social housing close to their places of employment. RTC said incidents of violence stemmed from Helen Bowden being captured in November last year, where 30 people used intimidation, threats of violence and force to gain entry into the building. This comes after news of a resident, Shahydah Musa, who faced physical, sexual and mental abuse by her ex-boyfriend in the home. She was also beaten unconscious by a resident when she took out a restraining order against her ex. Police confirmed a case was opened and said no positive arrest had been made, but a warrant of arrest has since been carried out for one of the leaders at the home for violating a protection order of another resident. RTC said the organisation had done its best to instil discipline and enforce rules. The organisation said it was unfair to expect a social movement to take responsibility for safety in the home when they, too, felt endangered at times. “The first time we became aware of Shahydah’s situation, she said she had a protection order against her boyfriend and asked for help. At this point we didn’t do enough. We expected the police to remove him from the building, like they would do anywhere else. “We were really shocked when we heard what had happened to her and realised that we could have done much better. Leaders have also had to deal with all of the problems that poor and working-class people face. These are sometimes very serious. “We ourselves are not always safe and we put ourselves at risk when we intervene in fights or report crimes,” said the RTC statement. Ndifuna Ukwazi (NU), an organisation that provides legal assistance, said the organisation deliberated for hours on how to assist Musa, but she refused assistance. NU said it was not their responsibility or in their mandate to offer Musa a safe house as they assisted individuals in court cases, not housing. Musa has yet to return to the home and claims that issues of violence have yet to be addressed. “(The manager) is a problem in that building. I don’t see myself going back there. I must just find a way now. (Ndifuna Ukwazi) called me and said they won’t be able to assist me with a safe house. It’s not a problem, the problem is within the occupation, and they’re not willing to address it,” said Musa. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus