Portia Mngomezulu, founder of Portia M Skin Solutions, was awarded Pick n Pay’s 2018 Small Supplier of the Year award at Pick n Pay’s Kenilworth head office yesterday. Mngomezulu was awarded for her business’ exceptional growth performance and job creation. The annual award recognises and rewards the top performing small supplier in the country across various categories. Last year the title was awarded to Bernard Nortjé, owner of Dessertworx, the national supplier for Pick n Pay’s dessert range. Mishinga Seyuba Kombo, Pick n Pay’s manager for enterprise and supplier development programme, said sustained on-going support across various disciplines was crucial for a small business to succeed. “We work closely with our small suppliers to provide them with the opportunity to put their products in front of the customer through our stores. The success of the programme is evident from seeing many of our suppliers expand across our network to service other retailers and sectors. “This growth is not only encouraging for their business, but for the communities they serve and the jobs they are able to create, ” said Kombo. Mngomezulu said she established her business in 2010, following the birth of her son. She said she developed stretch marks, and her mother-in-law suggested she use marula oil to treat the scarring. Impressed by the results, Mngomezulu wanted to share them with those closest to her and initially invested R200 in buying marula oil directly from rural women in Limpopo. She bottled the product and began selling it as a side business, re-investing the profits in the business. Today Mngomezulu has created a skincare range of 12 products for both men and women and is in the process of launching her baby range of five products. She employs 27 people. Mngomezulu’s business has generated over R20 million in sales in the last two years through Pick n Pay alone. She said she had always known what she wanted for her business and that focus enabled her to grow it into a multimillion rand operation that is expanding into Africa, with her products now available in Swaziland, Namibia and Botswana. “The programme (Pick n Pay’s enterprise and development programme) gave me the opportunity to pitch my products to a buyer, and within a week I was told I had secured a spot on their shelves. “This was the greatest day of my business life,” said Mngomezulu. Her products were initially placed in 20 corporate and family stores in 2015. Today they are available in 432 stores with sales already up 61% this year. @TheCapeArgus  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus