The agreement states that there will be no further land invasions and that no new structures will be erected. Municipality spokesperson Stuart Grobbelaar said negotiations with various stakeholders to acquire more land to build more houses were under way. “We continue tirelessly to provide as many housing opportunities as possible for all beneficiaries on our database,” he said. This comes after hundreds of people from Kayamandi illegally occupied the farmland and named it Azania informal settlement. The family trust that includes the Louiesenhof wine estate, which is the landowner, obtained an urgent interdict to remove unoccupied structures and to prevent more people from moving onto vacant space. Grobbelaar said the municipality had extensive plans for upgrading and improving living conditions in Kayamandi. This included new housing, electrification, bulk infrastructure, a new taxi rank, new informal trading sites, resealing of roads, a new bridge over the R45, a new water park and the upgrading of the Kayamandi CBD, among many others. Community leader Zola Ndalasi said they were promised RDP house three years ago, but nothing had been done. “Our people need places to stay and it is our right. I do not understand why we are being evicted when we erect our shacks on this land,” said Ndalasi. Land occupant Kwalunga Ngantweni said: “They took everything. Some of us were already living here and they took people’s belongings as well. “We don’t even know where they are taking them to. “We are tired of being abused by the Red Ants. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The municipality must give priority to people who live in informal settlements.” SA Human Rights Commission provincial commissioner Chris Nissen said he had conducted a walkabout in Kayamandi. “Our role is to protect and build the culture of human rights. “We must also bear in mind that people have human rights but they must make sure they do not express their rights with violence.” @Sisonke_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus