Organisations joining this cause include the Western Cape Christian Ministers Association, Cape Town Interfaith Initiative and the Western Cape Religious Leaders Forum. Concerned leaders from various faiths held a meeting at the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) offices after concerns about the extent of violence, lawlessness, destruction and loss of life being experienced daily. “What we’re planning is continuing events so that we make our presence and our unity known to the public and government, so they can see that we are not going to be quiet. Our communities are suffering and they must know that their faith leaders are here for them,” said Cape Town Interfaith Initiative chairperson Berry Behr. A media briefing was held to finalise details for the peace walk. Faith leaders are expected to gather at St George’s Cathedral and will march to the Castle of Good Hope. Behr said this would show the public faith leaders were united. Once they reach the castle they will have a silent prayer. “We will be addressing issues such as violence, gender-based violence and other social issues. We intend to address these so that we can bring peace,” Behr said. Also present at the briefing was MJC deputy president Moulana Abdul Khaliq Allie and Bishop Templeton Mbekwa. “The government has to be told that they need to take up the role to serve the people of the country and protect our people,” Khaliq Allie said. He said that as faith leaders they could no longer be silent. Khaliq Allie was responding to criticism over the last few years from organisations who slammed religious leaders for being silent while a number of their followers were subjected to crime and violence. Mbekwa said: “We have been silent for too long, it’s high time the sleeping giant is awoken. We are aware that criticism like that has been made. This is why we decided to march, so that we can show that we are against the gang violence, against the crime and that we are standing in unity.” Mbekwa said that after the march the organisation planed to take their message to numerous areas experiencing crime, especially the Delft Taxi rank that has been on edge with an ongoing turf war. “These days everyone can march, but tomorrow with this unity we are coming together to bring together a moral voice,” he said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus