The peace summit lead by Heavenly Culture World Peace Restoration of Light (HWPL) chairperson Man Hee Lee made its way around the world to encourage leaders and people to adopt the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW) framework to end conflict. The HWPL, together with the International Peace Youth Group (IPYG) and partners, now want to encourage leaders to adopt the declaration and encourage the UN to adopt it into their constitution as well. “One era is fading and a new one is beginning. Will this be achieved by sitting around? No. In Korea we hosted a World Alliance of Religious Peace summit to discuss the DPCW. We want to proposed it to the UN. “Existing laws cannot achieve peace. When the UN was established, it was for peace. Five nations (who form part of it) possess great nuclear weapons. “Half of these countries are communist and the others have democracy. If they engage in conflict, it will bring about destruction of the Earth,” said Lee. Lee said 80% of wars are started due to religious differences and 20% are waged due to differences between nations. “Everyone must unite under one creator and come to an agreement of one standard of law. Which is why I gathered 21 law experts and peacemakers to create the declaration. “At the UN, two-thirds of presidents must vote in favour of this law. This is why I travel from place to place to urge presidents to accept the law. “Once accepted, we will have peace in all nations. We must prevent war, promote peace and leave this as a legacy for future generations.” Director of the IPYG Peter Jung said the first five articles of the declaration work to prevent conflict of war, eliminate the urge to wage war and eliminate weapons so that nations can’t invade other’s territory. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.AdChoicesADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads Articles six and seven make provision to prevent further conflict, especially religious conflict, through strict legal measures. Article 10 of the DPCW emphasises the importance of education. “Please urge your presidents to support DPCW so that it can be passed by nations and take place as international law. Nations are made up of people, and presidents must listen to people. “If Africa supports it first and takes the lead, it will be remembered in the international community, and Africa will be most advanced country in the world.” The Seychelles President Danny Faure has signed a statement of solidarity with the DPCW and a letter was received from the Cape Town City mayor supporting the DPCW. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus