The women were protesting outside the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court opposing bail for Wazier Jumah, 39, who faces a charge of rape. It is alleged he kidnapped the girl, and held her hostage in his aunt’s flat not far from her home in Kewtown, where he allegedly drugged and raped her. In court Jumah came to the dock smiling, dressed in a red track top and jeans. He glanced at the packed gallery where the girl’s family and his wife were seated. The light reflected off a very big ring on his left hand, also showing a “28” tattoo on his middle finger. Before proceedings started, magistrate Goolam Bawa warned the public and the accused to behave and respect the court. He said at the previous court appearance there had been chaos. “If there is any noise I will clear the court,” he said. Bawa told the accused: “This case is against you. It is not our case, but yours so I will expect that you behave appropriately.” The State said it was opposing bail as the matter was a schedule six offence. The stand-in Legal Aid lawyer asked for a postponement. Bawa postponed the matter to September 4. Just before going back to the holding cells, Jumah again smiled at the public and softly whispered “I love you” to his wife. The words of the accused and the support for him displayed by his wife angered the protesters, who erupted in singing and chanting. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ilitha Labantu’s Nombeko Leputhing said Jumah showed no remorse. “He is smiling, doing everything as if he is comfortable with what he has done. “We will fight and make sure he doesn’t come out of jail. He doesn’t deserve to be returned to Kewtown. We will support the State and ensure that his bail is denied,” she said. The DA Women’s Network handed a memorandum to police calling for the strengthening of child sexual abuse programmes and the provision of sensitivity training to all police officers working with women and children affected by sexual abuse and domestic violence. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus