After a bruising spat with De Lille, caucus leader JP Smith says the rest of the team have a renewed sense of purpose. “The last caucus meeting we had, there was a very productive tone. The tone changed and it's clear that councillors want to get on with the work,” Smith said. The impasse between the DA and De Lille started in the City of Cape Town caucus after it lost confidence in De Lille. This led to no-confidence motions, which failed and somewhat split the caucus between supporters of De Lille and those who were closer to Smith and deputy mayor Ian Neilson. The last no-confidence motion against De Lille was retracted by councillor Marian Nieuwoudt after intervention by the party’s top brass. Smith said the current tone in the caucus was much improved. “We are now dealing with very uncomfortable issues and they are getting the attention they need. “Councillors want to get back to work, but they are talking very frankly. In the last meeting we especially dealt with the water tariffs and how we can address that issue. The irregular expenditure pointed out by the Auditor-General was also addressed in the caucus meeting. We are getting back to work and less worried with external matters,” he said. Smith said they had been working with De Lille, who was also part of the caucus meetings, after her suspension was lifted. “We have been working with Patricia and there have been good engagements. We respect the party’s decision, and engagements have been respectful. “There was also not a single tone of aggression in the meeting. We are also very frank,” he said. Asked about factionalism, Smith said: “That will always be a problem in any organisation, whether it be a church or a neighbourhood watch. "De Lille said she had always maintained a level of maturity when working with councillors, even those who didn't like her. De Lille, who will be resigning in October, said: “My focus has always been putting the City first, and that requires that you put all other issues behind.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus