Four officers were suspended while the other officer has resigned from the SAPS. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the officers - aged between 31 and 38 - all stationed at Vredenburg Police Station were arrested on Wednesday following an undercover operation. “The suspects face an array of charges ranging from disclosure of unauthorised information and fraud to dealing in drugs as well as corruption. “The suspects are alleged to have committed illicit activities while deployed to perform court and crime prevention duties,” said Van Wyk. According to the police, the men are alleged to have been colluding with members of the public to carry out activities such as the transportation of drugs while on duty, taking bribes and falsifying information. The National Assembly committee on police commended the police for the arrest. “The fight against crime begins with rooting out rogue elements within the police to ensure that only credible and dedicated officers remain in the service. “The arrest of these five officers is another step in the right direction in cleansing the SAPS of undesirable elements,” committee chairperson Francois Beukman said. Beukman, in the same breadth, reiterated the call for lifestyle audits. “The committee urges the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) together with crime intelligence to work steadfastly to root out corrupt officers, so that the SAPS retains credibility in the eyes of the people. “The committee also calls for the speedy implementation of lifestyle audits to root out officers who might be living beyond their means,” he said. The SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) called for no bail and the immediate suspension of the suspects. “The first criminal syndicates that must be uprooted are the ones deeply embedded with the SAPS because their existence and link to the underworld is a threat to policing as it undermines the safety of not only other police officers but that of our communities,” Sanco national spokesperson, Jabu Mahlangu said. He said that communities would only assist officers that they can trust in the war against crime, only if the police’s dedication and loyalty was unquestionable. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus