Although much focus has been on women in academia, there are several women who are doing it for themselves in retail. Elsabe van Zyl-Felix, advertising manager of Spar in Cape Town, describes herself as an extraordinary woman and a self-proclaimed advertising fanatic. The 52-year-old Van Zyl-Felix said: “Of course I am an extraordinary woman! It is Women’s Month and we have to celebrate this. Because, today still, women are not being heard.” She has been the advertising manager of Spar for 18 years. Van Zyl-Felix studied communications and public relations at Tshwane University of Technology. Over the past 18 years she has worked in the Western Cape and Namibia. “It is a very challenging career. I would describe an extraordinary woman as someone who gets up and does it all with vigour, passion and determination, notwithstanding the situation or challenges she finds herself in. “And I am an extraordinary woman because I have compassion. I care deeply for women, children and animals and believe we are all equal no matter what our standing in society. You should always treat people the way you would like to be treated. I have fallen, I have hurt, I have gotten up and I feel truly lucky to have a life. That’s enough. My advice to other women is: be brave, love life and love yourself!” Van Zyl-Felix said. Checkers’ deputy divisional manager in Gauteng, Baby Govender, said her passion is training young women. She said a lot of women see her as a role model “because I love working with people and development. And a lot of these women look up to me. I think that I am also good at motivating people. That is why a lot of them say they want to be like me. “I believe that irrespective of who you are that through hard work, your dreams can come true. I started working at Shoprite 35 years ago as a secretary. Today I am Checkers Hyper’s deputy divisional manager. I have also been very fortunate. In 2013 I became the deputy manager of Checkers Hyper,” she said. Govender said a lot of people also describe her as an extraordinary woman. “I think one of my best qualities is that I am always willing to help others. I am a people’s person and love to work with people. I hope my hard work and dedication can inspire young women,” she said. @RusanaPhilander rusanaphilander1@gmail.com Cape Argus