Yamile, whose 4-year-old daughter Iyapha was raped and strangled to death by Nkololo, couldn’t hold back her emotions as Judge Diane Davis handed the accused a life sentence for each of the rapes, including that of his close friend’s daughter, and the murder count. The sentences will run concurrently. The family, who filled the seats in the gallery, followed suit while some sang a mournful prayer. The emotional mother was unable to stand on her own as she was comforted by family and a social worker. Nkololo, on the other hand, was in a hurry to leave the courtroom, avoiding looking at the public and media. He rushed as police wardens escorted him down to the cell. Iyapha’s aunt, Nomakhazi Yamile, said the family were satisfied with the life sentence, but said it wouldn’t bring their daughter back. “The Yamile family will never forgive Odwa. He needs to tell us where and how he took her. Odwa is not the type of person to be reintroduced to society, ever. He doesn’t deserve parole. If he is ever released, our children’s lives will be in danger. He is not the type to live among people,” she said. The family said not a day went by without them thinking about Iyapha. “She was the youngest child in the house. We still think and talk about her,” she said. Earlier in court, Judge Davis said Nkololo had shown no remorse. “He had taken no responsibility for what he had done. It is clear he feels sorry for himself, for the predicament in which he finds himself in, but he doesn’t appear to spare a thought for the family of Iyapha Yamile who had to bear the ongoing burden of grief at her loss,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Judge Davis highlighted the rapes of the two minors occurred in a period of less than six weeks. “To my mind, he poses a danger to children and he needs to be removed from the community in the interest of safety. The children of our land should be able to play outside in safety; parents shouldn’t have to live in fear that their children will fall victims to sexual predators roaming the streets.” She also commended the community and police partnership in ensuring justice. @Zoey_Dano zodidi.dano@inl.o.za Cape Argus