Sihle Ngobese, spokesperson for MEC for Social Development Albert Fritz, said the department had not withdrawn funds, but the issue did relate to non-compliance by Famsa, “The department funds organisations rendering services to families for them to employ and provide full-time social workers. However, Famsa utilised this funding for other purposes. “Our officials from the Families Programme have been engaging Famsa on this matter, and indicated the need to comply with the department’s requirements.” Ngobese said that at no point was funding withdrawn from the organisation. Provisions were made for it to retain surplus funding to allocate to other projects it was running, as long as it demonstrated that the projects added value to the public and poor communities were served. Famsa said the uncertainty over funding had forced the organisation to look at other revenue streams. “Given the uncertainty, we are trying to diversify our revenue streams. However, financial constraints are our top challenge and we are dependent on donors,” Famsa said in a statement. The highly regarded NGO will this year be celebrating 70 years of service. It said it had been told earlier this year that the department was no longer willing to fund it. “Because of the current crisis, we have had to do what we can to encourage individuals, couples and families to, for example, evaluate our strengths and build on those and be creative. "We are developing our counselling services; our Farmtrac division offers training in a range of aspects to counsellors, corporates, government and the private sector on a range of topics; and our supervision team offer supervision and mentoring services to social workers in the government and other professionals,” Famsa said. Although the NGO said it would not close, because it had many other stakeholders funding it, it had to make severe cuts in its programmes, such as its Men’s Stopping Violence Against Women Group. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus