The “Raise your voice - not your phone” campaign saw Idols SA winner Paxton Fielies and radio DJ Carl Wastie surprise learners and talk to them about the dangers of bullying and the problematic nature of sharing bullying videos on social media. Wastie showed learners the online campaign platform created to educate the youngsters on their responsibility to intervene when bullying took place. The platform also hosts information on victim support for those being bullied and directs them on appropriate action to take. “There are different types of bullying. Physical bullying you see every day and verbal bullying which takes your power away. Bullying becomes viral because we love entertainment, but what are we doing to the victim? “We’re taking away the power of others. This campaign is about using your special power to raise your voice and make a difference. “You can change the lives of people around you,” said Wastie. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Fielies spoke about her own personal experiences with cyber bullies after she won Idols and appealed to pupils to consider the harmful impact bullying has on its victims. “It started when I won the competition. I received a lot of love and support from people in the beginning, but I also got rude and ugly messages. People judged me on my appearance and how I chose to live my life.” Schäfer said that given the prevalence of bullying in schools, the department had developed the campaign to highlight the effects of bullying on pupils and draw attention to the fact that pupils who filmed, posted or distributed videos were participating in bullying. She added that in order to get the message across, the department had sought the assistance of digital specialists and child psychologists to provide advice on the development of the online campaign. “The campaign first involves the filming of a fake bullying incident in a school yard and ends with the simple message: ‘raise your voice, not your phone.’ “But (eventually) it leads the reader to the realisation that pupils are also participating in bullying by filming the incident rather than intervening to bring an end to the abuse,” added Schäfer. The campaign can be accessed at http://www.wcg-antibullying.co.za/ @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus