Three months ago, she took homeless people from Cape Town to Camp Edgar where she is hosting her Winter Restoration programme. Five drug users have been clean for more than 60 days. Extraordinary, and a miracle on its own. Counselling is also provided and many people will eventually return home. It is with sheer determination and hard work that these results can be achieved. At this camp, the people, cook, clean and maintain the camp. It gives them a sense of responsibility. Orgill has been involved with the homeless for many years now. Her turning point came after the death of her son Troy who, after a long battle with drug use, committed suicide. In March 2014, I met Ma for the first time in the Company’s Garden. She walked up and down the lane engaging with us; from me, she wanted to know what I miss most. I told her “Mommy food”. That same evening she started to plan her feeding scheme and, up to now, has never missed a day. Together with two of her friends, Bridgette and Erica, we were lovingly fed every Thursday at 7pm. The first time she fed 35 people soup and pasta. Her weekly shopping list back then was two packets of split-peas, two carrots, two onions, two loaves of bread, pasta and R50 worth of mince. She cooked from home in her tiny kitchen, using only two pots. “When I met up with the homeless I was just as broken in my soul,” she reveals. “I understood where they were coming from. And, as time went on, feeding them was where my own healing started. I guess that was my inspiration. Their hugs felt good and genuine.” Last week, Ma fed around 200 people. We started chatting about shelters which, she said, are “cold”. Some people who work there don’t always have the skills. They don’t understand the dynamics of these broken souls. What we need to do is come together, sit down and ask the people on the streets what it is they need. Orgill can be reached at: venetiaorgill@gmail.com * Danny Oosthuizen is the #TheDignityProject ambassador. In his weekly daily column for the Cape Argus, he tackles the struggles homeless people face. Connect with Danny on Facebook and on Twitter @masekind3213 or via email: masekind321@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus