Hoya, 26, was convicted on five counts of kidnapping; 10 counts of rape; and three counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances. In addition to the five life terms, he was given a further 58 years. He targeted five girls, aged 10 to 18, who were on their way to school, holding them at knife point and robbing three of the girls of their lunch boxes, transport fare and lunch money. He raped the 10-year-old, who was his youngest victim twice in the bushes, while his oldest victim, the 18-year-old, was raped five times in a shack in one day. Judge Savage sentenced him to two life terms for the two counts of rape perpetrated against the 10-year-old girl. For the five counts of rape involving the 18-year old learner, she gave Hoya a further life sentence. He was sentenced to an additional 25 years on all the kidnapping counts and 18 years for robbing his victims of a Nokia cellphone, R6.50 and R33. Hoya stood in the dock unfazed as the judge handed down the sentences. Judge Savage said the accused chose not to testify in court, therefore he gave no explanation for his brutal acts. “You also showed no remorse. You sat through this trial emotionless with no apparent regard for the horrific suffering of the victims and their families. “The accused violently attacked his victims who were on their way to school. He made them endure the horror of being kidnapped and raped, in some instances repeatedly, and in some instances over an extended period of time “When he was finished with the violent attacks on them, he left his victims to pick up the pieces of their lives,” she said in reference to one of the victims who committed suicide due to the trauma.      Judge Savage said it was the court’s responsibility to act and ensure that women and children were protected from people like the accused. “The court has a duty to send a clear message to the accused and other potential rapists, and to the community. We are determined to protect the equality, dignity and freedom of all women; and we shall show no mercy to those who seek to invade those rights,” Judge Savage said. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) welcomed the sentence. Regional spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said: “Judge Savage didn’t disappoint, as she used her discretion.” @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus