The site for the depots is about 15 hectares on the corner of Mew Way and Spine Road, between Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha - the city’s biggest townships. Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said the preparatory work included major internal earthworks, perimeter fencing to secure the site, bulk services for the provision of water, sanitation and electricity, as well as the upgrade of surrounding roads. “The enabling works contract is valued at about R73m. We are currently busy with the design of the depot facilities which will consist of storage, parking, and fuelling facilities for the buses, office buildings, and facilities for the personnel,” said Herron. He said the local communities in Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha would benefit through job opportunities. “Apart from the job and business opportunities to local residents and subcontractors, the roll-out of phase 2A of the MyCiTi service will provide commuters from the area with an affordable, decent, and scheduled public transport service to Wynberg and Claremont,” Herron said. “According to the City, all contracts require the contractor provides temporary employment opportunities to local residents, and also that the contractor subcontracts services and goods from local businesses as far as possible,” he said. In terms of the contract for the enabling works at this site, the contractor is obliged to provide temporary employment opportunities to local residents to the value of 3% of the contract - about R2.1m, he said. The contractor is also obliged to subcontract services and goods from local businesses amounting to 2% of the contract value, which equates to about R1.46m. Mayoral committee member for area east Anda Ntsodo said there would be local job and enterprise opportunities during the current preparation works contract, for the future construction phase of the depots, and during the future depot operations. “Job seekers are sourced from the local subcouncil database, so I encourage all residents seeking employment to please ensure that they are registered with the local subcouncil,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus