About 1 300 children were killed on South African roads last year, with 50 of the deaths recorded in the City of Cape Town. To commemorate those children who lost their lives on the road, ChildSafe and Open Streets invited 50 Grade 5 children from St George’s Grammar School to an art installation at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital yesterday. Each child was tasked with erecting a silhouette of a child on a fence outside of the hospital - representing the 50 children who died on Cape Town’s roads last year. With road accidents and deaths showing no immediate sign of relenting, the threat posed to children is a major concern within the health sector. The head of the Trauma Unit at the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Professor Sebastian van As, said road accident injuries were one of the most tragic yet avoidable surgeries he conducted. “Of the 10 000 children we treat every year (at the hospital), around 1 000 are from road-related accidents. “Often, the children aren’t strapped in, an adult isn’t helping them to cross the road, or they’re alone. It’s hugely upsetting, but it doesn’t have to be like this.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Earlier this week, a young boy was decapitated after a minibus taxi, allegedly unroadworthy and without the correct documentation, crashed on the N2. Van As, who is also the president for ChildSafe, added that distressing instances such as these happened “far too often” in the country. Executive director of ChildSafe Yolande Baker believes her organisation has a major part to play in reducing everyday threats to children. “We’re campaigning for children because ultimately they aren’t in a position to do that for themselves. We see our role as not only teaching children, but also educating adults.” @peter197t  peter.thomas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus