Inganathi Mafenuka, received a special baby shower to celebrate the birth of her babies sponsored by KFM. The radio station stepped in to assist the 22-year old mom with her newborns. “One of the pillars of the morning show is life-changing experiences but doing it for the right reasons,” KFM station manager Stephen Werner said. “We started a discussion with our friends at LottoStar and then we wanted to take it further. We asked how can the people of the Western Cape get involved so we called Clicks and we gave people the opportunity to make a contribution.” Darren “Whackhead” Simpson, host of the radio station KFM mornings, arranged for LottoStar to give Mafenuka R10 000 each month for the first year of the babies lives. Mafenuka is a student from Khayelitsha who is studying at Richfield Graduate Institute of Technology, pursuing a diploma in IT. She lives with her mother and two sisters. Donna Davids co-ordinator of the Clicks Helping Hands Trust said: “When KFM approached us, it was a no brainer, we want to be able to follow the children’s journey and lend a helping hand where we can, because moms and babies are our passion.” Clicks helping hands focuses on assisting babies and moms with health services. It also gave its customers the opportunity to make a contribution to Mafenuka and put donation boxes in its stores. “Initially we set up boxes at five stores and we had listeners call in to ask if we can in put up one in Constantia as well, which was great,” Davids said. Donation boxes were scattered at shopping centre’s such as Cape Gate, Canal Walk and Liberty Promenade in Mitchells Plain. Radio presenters Sherlin Barends and Sibongile Mafu said they were blown away after hearing Mafenuka’s story. “My first emotion was, we are going to have to help her. Although I was very happy for her I knew she was going to need all the help she can get,” Barends said. Simpson said it didn’t come as a surprise to him that so many people opened their hearts to Mafenuka. “People are naturally very giving we look out for each other, I was surprised at the fact that she now has supplies for the next three years that is mind blowing,” he said. KFM’s special baby shower was attended by nurses, mom bloggers and guests. “KFM really helped me and that’s one less thing to worry about now I can just focus on my babies,” Mafenuka said. She named the boys Bubele and Buchule and the girls, Bunono and Bungcwele. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus