The chairperson and caretaker of the Hangberg Interim Community Fishers Board, Michael Baartman and Michelle Yon, claimed that Halim had been deeply involved in limiting the income of fishermen, manipulating the market so he, along with his business associates, could monopolise local markets as the major supplier. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Baartman and Yon said: “Fishermen have suffered at the hands of Mr Halim due to decisions being made with marketers without the consent of the fishermen.” The plight of Hout Bay fishermen was brought into sharp focus recently when local fisherman Durick van Blerk went missing after he and two others were apparently shot at by police after they allegedly went crayfish poaching two weekends ago. This led to violent unrest in the area. Van Blerck remains missing. In a fishing community which operates under strict quota control, Halim and his associates were believed to be harvesting an unfair majority of the total allowable catch (TAC) in Hout Bay, preventing others from gaining a foothold in the industry. “Local boat owners have no chance of becoming a supplier during the crayfish season, because Mr Halim and his business associates made sure to have their boats catch the majority fish of the TAC,” said Baartman and Yon. To compound these damning allegations, it has also been suggested that Halim prevented fishermen who submitted permit documents on time from fishing during the season, informing them that their documents were received late, or that their boats don’t meet the necessary criteria. “All these issues creates a negative knock-on effect to the detriment of the fishers. To date, members of the IR Fishing quota has lost more than 2 tons due to over catching. We need answers,” said Baartman and Yon. Responding to the accusations, Halim said he was not removed, suggesting he stepped down after a recent meeting. He also refuted claims of maladministration. “Two seasons ago, we were deducted 1 600kg from our permit, which I even rectified this season at DAFF, where they gave us another permit because I proved to them we didn’t overcatch. “The three co-operative vessels catch the people’s fish,” said Halim, “We’re not causing anyone to lose out because the fish we catch; the people get paid the money (and) it goes directly to the people. The Department of Agriculture, Forestries and Fisheries has also been called on to assume a more proactive role in small-scale fishing communities. @peter197t  peter.thomas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus