Representatives from Tankwa Karoo, Table Mountain, West Coast, Agulhas and Bontebok national parks gathered at the event at Agulhas, which also featured a marching drill, a live choir, and a demonstration of SANParks ranger dogs in action during poaching incidents. Regional manager Norman Johnson saluted present rangers. Rangers who have lost their lives, and the generous families and communities who supported their endeavours. “We stand here to commemorate people who have lost their lives protecting our resources,” he said. He said rangers were at risk from the dangers posed by poachers who would attempt to take national resources for themselves - something which he believed could be easily avoided. “About 50% of rangers lose their lives in the battle with poachers. “It is because of people killing other people in order to access resources.” Agulhas park manager Johan Taljaard said that “very often (rangers) encounter incidents where poachers are armed”. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This often creates very distressing scenarios for rangers, as section ranger for Table Mountain Faroeshka Rodgers contended: “When you encounter a distressing situation, you don’t really know how you’re going to react until you find yourself in that environment. “You just have to trust your training and do the best you’re capable of.” Despite the daily threats encountered by the rangers, Rodgers remained optimistic that young people would continue to be inspired into a career in nature conservation. “Exposure is really important for the younger generation, and we often have young people come to us to gain experience and learn about the job.” Tuesday’s events coincided with many celebrations across South Africa, noting the significant impact rangers had on their communities. Due to their status as crucial contributors to many areas of the country. Johnson said: “I’m very proud to be associated with SANParks. “The job we do is noble - we are protecting something that is a benefit to the whole of South Africa.” @peter197t and @Nour__Sal peter.thomas@inl.co.za and nour.sallam@inl.co.za Cape Argus