Greg’s Dance Academy in Retreat is hosting a dance competition and is also home to the pro dancers who are hoping to compete at the World Ballroom and Latin Championships from 6-9 December in France, and from 13-15 December in Italy. Popular faces include comedienne Mel Jones, Chesne Stevens aka Mr Zanzi, owner of Zanzibar Hair and Beauty Salon in Mitchells Plain, actress Charlene Wolmarans from the kykNet series Danz, and actor Dillon Windvogel who plays the lead role of Ashwin in Danz, as well as kykNet’s Sara se Geheim. Also on the floor will be hip hop dancer and instructor Keanu Bergman, who works closely with organisations through dance, and ward 68 councilor Marita Petersen. They will be partnered with pro dancers Ryan Gertze, Tania Zass, Shane Rudolph, Octavia Fortune, Jayden Moolman and Tasmin Andrews who will put the celebs through their paces to vie for the title. Funds raised from ticket sales will be donated to the dancers for their travel and accommodation costs. One of the event directors, Bertha Fortune, says selecting the celebs was a challenge. “When selecting celebs, we looked at how these specific individuals influenced the community,” she explains. “We wanted people who could relate to the struggle we face on a daily basis. “We chose celebs that would be able to attract an audience and also inspire others to take part as we hope to make this an annual event.” Greg Moolman adds: “We are not financially equipped to afford the trips and therefore must appeal to our local community and companies for assistance in raising these funds. “We need to raise R200 000 by end of September 2018.” He says the dance competition will involve celebs and their partners doing the cha cha, jive, waltz and quickstep. “Then the ‘pro’ dancers will be giving the crowd a taste of the other dances such as the tango, Viennese waltz, slow foxtrot and quickstep, samba, rumba and Paso doble.” The show takes place at Retreat Civic Centre on Saturday at 6pm and spectators pay R140. Bring your own XYZ and platters. The winning couple gets a trophy and certificate.  venecia.valentine@inl.co.za  Daily Voice