These were the words of Hondjiswa Ntoyakhe, one of the 500 Du noon residents left homeless after a fire swept through their properties in the early hours of on Tuesday morning. “A lady from the back was screaming and the flame was already big at that point,” Ntoyakhe said. The fire started at around 5.30am. “We just grabbed the things that were close, like a random suitcase,” she said. RELATED - 12 people have died in 200 informal settlement fires By late Tuesday, Ntoyakhe said she managed to make food for her children at a friend’s place. “I am hoping we will be able to stay with her for now,” she said. For Ntoyakhe it’s especially hard. “All of my children’s school things are gone. This is the third time that I have been affected by a fire and it’s always difficult to start over again,” she said. More than 100 structures were destroyed. Authorities say details about how the fire started were still unclear. Residents said that the fire spread rapidly and that they were happy no one was harmed or injured. The city’s fire and rescue services Theo Layne said seven fire engines and three water tankers with around 42 fighters from seven different fire stations responded. “Crews remained on scene to carry out mopping up operations,” Layne said. But for residents this has become the norm and they are fed up. “No one is taking note of us, this happens over and over and they tell us to vote but nothing changes,” Ntoyakhe said. ALSO READ - 10 year old dies in Pholeli Park fire She said she has been waiting for a new home. “I have been here for so long and we have been told we will receive houses, but there is still nothing.” The city’s Disaster Risk Management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said: “Residents have received fire kits and rebuilding has commenced.” Last year, a fire ripped through the area’s informal settlement leaving 145 people displaced as 44 homes went up in flames. Fortunately, no one was injured. And in 2016, 30 wood and zinc homes went up in flames and 120 people were left displaced. Two adults and a child suffered burn wounds. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus