A photo of children at Prince George Drive Primary School lying flat on their stomachs, hands over their ears and their books scattered on the floor were posted on Facebook, drawing outrage from residents. It’s believed the photo was taken after gangsters started shooting outside the school Thursday morning. A panicked mother commented, saying: “Our children are expected to perform at school under these circumstances! Something must be done. “All my children experienced this today, having to lay on the floor because idiot adult stupids only think of their own irrelevant agendas. The lives in lavender hill matter too [sic].” Smashed A motorist caught in the gang crossfire also posted photos on Facebook after a bullet smashed through his windscreen. Police revealed a woman, who had been shot and injured in the shooting, ran into the school for safety. However, Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Education MEC, Debbie Schäfer, claimed an educator took the picture of the children during a drill. “We are aware that there was allegedly shooting in the Lavender Hill area today. No learner was involved in the alleged incident,” she said. “A teacher reportedly took a photo of learners lying on the floor during a safety drill.” But police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, confirmed the shooting took place and says a woman who was caught in the crossfire ran into the school for protection. “This office can confirm that sporadic shootings occurred this morning in Lavender Hill area due to ongoing gang violence in the area. A 30-year-old female sustained a graze wound to her upper left leg as a result of a stray bullet,” said Van Wyk. “At the time of the shooting she was walking down Prince George Drive, Lavender Hill. After the shooting she ran into a primary school. “She was treated by paramedics who transported her to a nearby hospital for further medical treatment. No arrests have been made and police officials have been static at the four schools in Lavender Hill area.”  robin.francke@inl.co.za  Daily Voice