Around five million people are set to vote for SGBs across the country. The elections began at the start of this month and will come to an end on March 30. Governing Body Foundation chief executive Tim Gordon said SGBs had changed a lot over the years. “The demographic has changed, but in schools in areas like Khayelitsha and Langa there has been no change and they still remain 100% black. This is because parents from townships send their children to schools in suburbs, but parents from suburbs don’t send their children to schools in townships.” He said parents opted for schools in suburbs as they offered a wider range of 
activities, both academically and in extramurals. “More and more of these parents are getting involved in SGBs, understandably so. Before they were lacking in confidence.” He said they wanted to eventually see all schools being on the same level. “The first thing that would have to happen is there would have to be a mindset change and it will also take a lot of money.” The chief executive for the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), Basil Manuel, said parents needed to take part as it would give them ownership of their school. “I have seen when parents embrace that role, how much they can do in a school and that is what we need in our communities.” He said that, aside from having a say in the direction of the school, it was about having pride in a community asset. “A governing body needs all types of people. Some are discouraged by demeanour around them and there is the issue of confidence.” “Sometimes you need a person with a heart. When you have people with heart they will do the right thing. Some of the best governing bodies have good-hearted people.” According to the South African Schools Act (SASA), SGBs have considerable powers to govern the school. Education MEC Debbie Schafer urged parents to participate in the nomination and election of members. “While governing body members are not required to have formal qualifications, we are urging parents with skills in bookkeeping, accounting and legal services, in particular, as well as those who are interested in, and passionate about education, to consider standing for election. “While we value skills of all kinds, knowledge of accounting and legal processes is particularly useful, given the kinds of decisions that governing bodies have to make, and the responsibilities they are entrusted with.” @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus