DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced last week that through water saving and interventions by the Drought Task Team, the City has defeated #DayZero, the day on which the taps would turn off. However, executive deputy mayor Ian Neilson said water tariffs remain unchanged. “The water tariffs are linked to Level 6B water restrictions. Until such time as water restrictions are revised, the current tariff structure will remain in place,” he said. RELATED: #EveryDropCounts: Maimane adds to Day Zero confusion Neilson manages the city’s drought-response team with mayoral committee member Xanthea Limberg, after the party removed mayor Patricia de Lille from managing the water crisis. De Lille and the DA are at loggerheads over allegations of fraud. Some members of the DA's caucus in the City want her removed, but a motion of no confidence in De Lille backfired when she survived the motion. Neilson told Independent Media continued low water consumption was still important, even though #DayZero has been pushed back. “If Capetonians do not abide by the 450 million litres a day limit imposed by the National Department of Water and Sanitation, our dam levels will again start dropping more rapidly than they have over the past weeks, which would undermine all the good work we have done," Neilson explained. "We need to ensure everyone continues playing an active part in limiting individual water consumption to 50 litres a person a day.” The DA received a backlash from opposition following the announcement on #DayZero, with some accusing the DA-led government of creating the water crisis to scare Capetonians. The ANC in the Western Cape wants a full investigation into how the City made its calculations and what exactly changed. ALSO READ: DA's Day Zero rapid changes too hard to swallow ANC Western Cape spokesperson Yonela Diko said: “Many people in the Western Cape remain in the dark as to the cause, how did we get here, and who’s responsible. Was Day Zero even real?” However, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the recent developments on #DayZero were to be attributed to water consumption, water supply cuts to agricultural irrigation boards, augmentation and water donations from farmers. Zille was taken to court together with provincial legislature Speaker Sharna Fernandez and Environmental Affairs MEC Anton Bredell over their alleged failure to manage the water crisis. The matter brought before the Western Cape High Court by the ANC Youth League was on Monday dismissed with costs.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus