Advocate Glynnis Breytenbach, chairperson of the DA’s federal legal commission, advised De Lille that it is not DA practice to open internal matters to the media. “We are a political party and internal matters are discussed behind closed doors. It is not the party’s position to invite the media to internal proceedings. I advised the mayor of the DA’s position on this and she has made an application on this matter. The committee will now investigate this and consider her request once more,” Breytenbach said. She said De Lille’s disciplinary meeting was set to start on Monday, but De Lille had asked for an extension which was granted. RELATED: JP Smith acting as de facto mayor, says De Lille The matter was now set for March 20. De Lille said she wanted it to be open as the DA has made the charges against her public “without any due processes”. “As you know I have received several settlement proposals from the DA leadership over the past few weeks. Some of these are already in the public domain - such as the offers I received to take up a seat in the National Assembly. All of these proposals have been initiated by the DA leadership. “My lawyers have indicated to the DA’s federal legal commission that I expect the disciplinary hearing to be open to the media,” she added. De Lille has been accused of maladministration and covering up corruption involving millions that the City lost in MyCiTi bus sales. An internal DA investigation also found there are issues with De Lille’s leadership. Claims of nepotism have also been made against her. “I remain consistent and resolute that I have been wrongly accused of a number of serious charges. In the case of the Steenhuisen report I have already been found guilty without a proper hearing or without due process. I am seeking to have those findings reviewed and set aside in the Western Cape High Court,” De Lille said. She had built up a strong reputation in and outside of the DA, she said. “These allegations and accusations have caused me great reputational damage and have damaged our party and our flagship government. Under these circumstances my focus must be to clear my name and to restore my reputation and that of the government I have led for the past 7 years.” It is believed that law firm Bowman Gilfillan will release its report into corruption, maladministration and mismanagement at the City in mid-March. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus