Artists slated to perform include Jarrad Rickets, Claire Phillips, DJ Eazy, local entertainer Alistair Izobell and The Soil. The line-up this year is extremely different to last year, when artists such as Mango Groove and Freshly Ground took to the stage. RELATED - #CTIJF2018: Jazz festival 'won't drain city's water' A public debate will also be held today at the Artscape Opera Bar. It will look at jazz history and literature, and stereotypes that often govern popular perceptions of “men’s” and “women’s" music. Meanwhile, as part of its ongoing sustainable training and development programmes, the festival will once again host its popular "Masterclass" series. These free masterclasses afford anyone with an interest in music the opportunity to learn from professionals - to better their own shows or simply just to get up close and personal with some of the festival’s artists. The masterclasses have always been well attended, and this year the organisers expect the same, with a stellar line-up of music masters who have agreed to share their stories and present their musical mind-food. This year’s stars include British queen of soul and contemporary R&B Corinne Bailey Rae, who has secured multiple Top Ten UK and US albums and a stack of Grammy and other awards, the multi-award-winning “hot” jazz pianist, electronic musician and writer Vijay Iyer from the US, and vocalist, upright bassist and composer-cum-arranger Miles Mosley, also from the US, who will stand and deliver on Friday. ALSO READ - #CTIJF2018: Simphiwe Dana to do it for Madiba at jazz fest And on Saturday, Louiz Banks, dubbed “the Godfather of Indian jazz”, will offer his Indi-pop, progressive jazz and Indo jazz fusion knowledge for discussion and Trumpeter Nicholas Payton from the US, whose music fuses his hometown New Orleans sound with modern jazz, hip hop, mixtape and spoken-word, will delve into what makes his music happen. Mulatu Astatke from Ethiopia, known as the father of Ethio-jazz, will round off the masterclasses, which will take place in the VOC Room on the third floor of the Cape Sun Hotel at various times. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus