The carnival will not be complete without the City’s firefighters, who are all set to attract their fair share of attention once again. This year a contingent of Law Enforcement and Traffic Services officers will be joining their firefighting counterparts to add to the brawn and glamour. For the first time the group will have their very own float. The City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security; and Social Services, Alderman JP Smith, visited the carnival workshop yesterday, where teams were hard at work putting the finishing touches to the range of floats. Alderman JP Smith and some of the city firefighters. Picture: Supplied READ: Cape Town Carnival aims to use zero city water ‘The carnival is a colourful expression of our diverse communities and a celebration of the cultural diversity of our city. Young and old can expect to be mesmerised by wacky puppets, giant floats and elaborate costumes. Additionally, a display of well-choreographed performances by our very own home-grown talent alongside their professional counterparts is guaranteed to keep all spectators enthralled and in awe,’ said Alderman Smith. The fan walk will come alive with an eclectic mix of dancing, singing and revelry for the carnival. Added to this mix will be the City’s own firefighters who have been working tirelessly to protect residents. Carnival-goers can enjoy the revelry and variety of food, crafts and special children’s activities from 15:00 onwards. The parade itself will begin at 19:00. ‘I attend the carnival every year and experience first-hand how the event unites Capetonians from all walks of life with a common purpose, which is to relax and get lost in a world of fantasy. This event should serve as an inspiration to us all. To see such a large and diverse group of people come together to create and build a world of fantasy for the evening is commendable. We all need to escape to a world of make-believe for at least one night a year to relax and unwind,’ said Alderman Smith. General access to the carnival is free, which makes the event accessible to everyone from across the city and beyond.  ‘Our support for the Cape Town Carnival is part of our commitment to building an inclusive city where residents have a sense of belonging. We welcome the accompanying employment opportunities and the exposure for our community and school groups. Such events also help us to position Cape Town as the events capital of Africa,’ added Alderman Smith. Temporary road closures will be in place to accommodate the event. This will affect the normal flow of traffic in and around the City Bowl and Green Point area. As such, road users are asked to plan their routes accordingly.