Cape Town - The stage is set for Huawei K Day at Meerendal Estate on Saturday. Thousands are expected to descend on the Durbanville wine route for the annual music festival, which boasts some of South Africa’s top acts. Huawei K Day is touted as Cape Town’s premier music, technology and lifestyle event. The event was launched in 2007 and has grown in leaps and bounds, now boasting a crowd of some 15 000. The “Dream it Possible” winner, Lebo Sekhoto, will kick off the programme, followed by some of the best local acts to grace the stages of Cape Town, like Jean Citto, Jordan Black, G&T, Jimmy Nevis, Craig Lucas and Idols winner Paxton Fielies. Fielies will be followed by Matthew Mole, Shekhinah, Timo ODV, and Gangs of Ballet before Youngsta CPT – who has been making waves with his electric live performances – step onto the stage. Those acts set the scene for some of the country’s top musical exports: Mi Casa, AKA, Locnville, DJ Kent and Freshlyground. “We at Huawei are extremely excited to be partnering with KFM 94.5 yet again for another epic Huawei K Day. The previous Huawei K Day was successful in ensuring that consumers experienced the collaboration of two brands by sharing the passion for local music,” said Claire Wujun, marketing director at Huawei Consumer Business Group South Africa. “Huawei K Day, powered by the Huawei Mate 10 Pro, will enable consumers to once again experience our latest masterpiece with AI technology at the core of our latest device,” she added. Mi Casa were also excited about performing at the festival: “We always give K Day our all and we definitely feel the love that Cape Town has for us. We can’t wait! We are expecting to give a good show and allow the people of Cape Town to enjoy each performance. “K Day always brings fantastic vibes, the crowd never ceases to disappoint year after year, it’s a well-organised event and the build-up is something we always look forward to. It also allows for our brand to be exposed to new faces and fans.” Gates open at 9am. Festival-goers may bring cameras, blankets, picnic baskets and folding chairs, but baskets and cooler boxes will be checked for glass, alcohol, tins and cans, which are prohibited. Drugs, weapons, gazebos, braais or sharp objects will not be allowed.  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus