“A  lot of us didn’t take much notice with what they said on TV or radio (about Day Zero), but seeing it today, it’s a good experience for us. “This is the first time I’ve experienced something like this. We can see the dams are really empty,” said Louise Ferris, 84, who was too frail to get out of the bus. Members of the party, from Beacon Valley, who got off the bus held hands to pray that the dams may be replenished, and some remarked that they once swam and played in the now barren dam. The elderly community was brought to the dam by Western Cape MEC for Social Development Albert Fritz in an effort to dispel myths circling in the Mitchells Plain area that Day Zero is a lie. “People think Day Zero is a a lie and figment of someone’s imagination. “They’re flushing drinking water down the toilet. So we thought, let’s come and have a look’. The main source of our water is the Theewaterskloof Dam. “Some of the seniors are very sceptical. But in one of the old-age homes, they’ve halved their water bill.” Beaconvale Community Frail Care Centre chairperson Solomon Philander said the centre, which caters to 135 residents and 90 staff members, went from paying R18 000 per month for water to R10 000 per month. “We managed to half our municipal bill to R10 000. We use less than 50 litres of water per person, per day for cooking, cleaning and everything for frail care. “We have strategic water points in the facility and we have bucket baths because a full bath is not necessary. “It’s used only when needed. Water is life and it’s all of our responsibility.” Irvin van der Burg said: “I can’t explain it. It’s just dry, dry, dry. There’s no water. People must come see for themselves. I’m worried about the future where is the water coming from?” Daniel Williams said: “There has been no rain for some time. They don’t believe us at home when you talk about it and everyone wants to take a shower. “It’s worse than what we thought. When I came here a few years ago, we were running around here in the pool.”  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus