This was after Smith proposed new caucus rules that bind councillors to party decisions, in an attempt to rein in defiant DA councillors who voted against De Lille’s removal as mayor. Smith, who is also the deputy caucus leader, is proposing that the caucus in exceptional conditions be led by any other designated councillor other than the mayor, who usually automatically assumes the role of caucus leader. RELATED: ‘Pro’ mayor DA councillors abused on F-Book He said the main goal of the proposed rules - set to be discussed on Monday - was to prevent patronage with the allocation of positions within the council. “As deputy leader of the DA Cape Town caucus, I would be one of the caucus executive members who would be replaced by a new election process. The intention is to allow the caucus to elect a fresh leadership who can take the caucus forward and are not perceived to be part of the conflict over the last year and a half,” he said. A week ago, caucus chairperson Suzette Little resigned amid simmering tensions. She described the caucus as deeply divided and irreparable. She also said the 40 councillors who voted against the removal of the mayor are now being victimised. But Smith says there was a time when the caucus leadership could be elected more frequently. “There was a leadership collective who made sure they serve for a full five-year term. In broad strokes, I want to prevent patronage with appointments of chairpersons of committees and sub-councils. I am keen to reverse that to ensure the elected leadership serves with a mandate. “This is not targeted at the mayor or any other councillors,” he said. RELATED: #DeLille takes on JP Smith The rules read: “All decisions of caucus are binding on all members of the caucus. On issues on which the party allows a free vote, no caucus decision may deviate from that. “Currently, only the issues of abortion, the death penalty and motions of no confidence allow for a free vote.” De Lille said she was not worried about the latest developments. “I am not allowed in the caucus and therefore they can do whatever they want to. I am busy delivering services for the people. I have been kept busy with the uproar in Gugulethu and other areas. “There are serious matters out in our city and some are worried with politics. JP is behaving like the de facto mayor of the City, but I do not care. I am here to serve.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus