Richard Bosman, director of the City’s safety and security directorate, has been accused of securing a job for his wife, Alesia, owing to his relationship with De Lille. When called for comment, Bosman said he was consulting with his lawyers. In a text message to journalists, he also said: “What I have done is unusual, but this is having a huge impact upon my personal life. This evening, a marriage of 31 years has fallen apart and my teenage son is frantic about his father being inferred as being corrupt. I was not afforded an opportunity to respond to this article at all. This is unfair and discriminatory in the extreme, besides being libellous. RELATED: Law firm coining it from City of Cape Town "I will deal with this through the appropriate channels. The timing of the report was perfect: I was informed that I had been shortlisted for the vacant city manager post; the article makes a mockery of that now.” Four directors were required after council, in August 2017, adopted a new organisational development and transformation plan (ODTP) in what they say is their bid to speed up and improve service delivery. The ODTP led to the City dividing the metropole in four geographical locations, namely North, East, South and Central - each with their own directors and mayoral committee members (mini-mayors). Bosman’s wife was appointed, along with Wilfred Solomons-Johannes, Freddie Prince and former councillor Ernest Sonnenberg. However, an applicant for one of the four director positions laid a complaint with the SA Local Government Bargaining Council after he was sidelined in the appointment process. Manuel Davids, who appealed the appointments was one of hundreds who applied for four area-based director vacancies. ALSO READ: What does the DA have to hide by making #DeLille’s hearing private? Davids was the head of customer support services within the City’s electricity and distribution department under the energy directorate. He had worked for the City for 36 years. Davids claimed that the four appointees were very close to De Lille. Bosman also wrote to acting municipal manager Lungelo Mbandazayo requesting legal representation from the City. “I hereby wish to appeal to you to protect me as an employee of the City against these attacks in the media
and politically as there are external
influences at play, as the newspaper articles suggest." @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus