De Lille’s comments come after a leaked message surfaced that claims the DA could only get between 38% and 45% of votes in the Western Cape should elections be held in a few months. The DA federal executive (FedEx) chairperson James Selfe denied the claims, saying whoever leaked the information was "terribly confused". De Lille, who is facing charges and will appear before a party disciplinary committee later this month, said she remained committed to delivering services. “The past few months have been difficult for me with the drama around the investigations and the charges. Service delivery has been affected. I have always said that members should not focus on the internal fighting. Their focus should always be on the people and delivering services to the people. Once you lose sight about your purpose, that is when trouble starts,” she said. De Lille would not be drawn on the allegations made on social media, but wanted to know the source. “Because most of what is said, looks like something from the FedEx,” she said. The leaked message claimed that De Lille’s legal team also asked for the original letter from JP Smith, member of the mayoral committee for safety, which was used to establish the investigations. “The De Lille issue will be difficult for the party to recover from and if she goes to court again and again this will have a negative impact on implementing campaign strategy," the message read. "Our recent internal poll can be translated or interpreted on a month-on-month average which indicates that if the elections was in the next few months we will only get between 38-45% of the votes in the Western Cape and less than 20% nationally. They are also afraid of the rumours that an expert defence/prosecutor will represent her,” the message added. Selfe said he had no idea who this person was, but the person "is misinformed". “The DA  is ready to proceed with the disciplinary hearing, and has been for some time. Ms De Lille is welcome to approach whatever court she likes to ventilate whatever issue she likes. We are satisfied with the case we have prepared, and we are unfazed by whatever legal representative she may have engaged,” he said. “Also, her legal team asked for the hearing to be open to the public and media, as the party jumped the gun by creating the perception that she committed corruption and was already found guilty through the media and on social networks. Last week, the FedEx refused an open hearing and they are now running around for affidavits,” the message read. The hearing will be held on March 20. “DA leaders Mmusi Maimane, Glynnis Breytenbach and Selfe want to scrap the charges based on untested allegations and want to settle before our elective conference in April. If open hearing is not granted, FedEx is worried about a possible court interdict from her legal representatives which will set a precedent for future hearings of those they want to get rid of,” the message read. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus