If construction work by the main contractor NMC went according to schedule, KPMG staffers would have been able to move into its new offices by the end of the month. Dave Williams-Jones, chief executive of FWJK Developments, who is also involved in the development of the building, said Ziningi Developments, which owned the new building, took over the staff of NMC and proceeded with construction. “They took over the site work of NMC. We are developing with Ziningi who have now taken over all the construction work. The whole delay was about two to three weeks. But the tower cranes have been turning after the preparatory work was done,” he said. Williams-Jones said they expected construction to be completed by June. In September, there were concerns of job losses for the more than 3 000 employees of KPMG, many at the regional headquarters in Cape Town. After the resignation of its top executives, there were also fears that the local arm of the Dutch-based firm might implode as it lost its top clients. Sars boss Tom Moyane said they would be instituting legal proceedings against KPMG for reputational damage after the firm withdrew an earlier report on a rogue spy unit within Sars. Meanwhile, the SA Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA), headed by advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza, began hearing testimony on whether KPMG members who were registered with the institute violated any ethics. The inquiry, appointed last year November, will focus on the work KPMG undertook for Gupta-linked firms’ members from January 2013 to September last year, to determine whether KPMG contravened the institute’s code of professional conduct. KPMG chief executive Nhlamu Dlomu said the inquiry has been given all versions, including the final version, of the report KPMG SA provided to the Sars. “Access to the full report of the KPMG International investigation, which contains information that it would be illegal to make public, has been provided to the Independent Regulatory Board of Auditors and offered to the Ntsebeza Inquiry,” she said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus