Cape Town - EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu has apologised for assaulting a Cape Town journalist, which sparked nationwide outrage. The Cape Argus was first to capture the scuffle on video between Netwerk24 journalist Adrian de Kock and Shivambu. Shivambu said the scuffle was a result of circumstances which included taking of photographs and persistence to speak to him while he was receiving documents from staff members in order to attend a meeting of the standing committee on finance (SCOF). “Whilst I was in a hurry to attend the committee meeting, I accept that my impatience with the gentleman was inappropriate," Shivambu said. "The scuffle happened and was never an assault on the journalist or media freedom. I regret the incident and believe it should have been handled differently. Also read: WATCH: Journalist attacked by EFF's Floyd Shivambu "I take full responsibility and apologise for engaging in a scuffle with a person I discovered after the incident is a Journalist. I will write and email an official apology on the scuffle because I believe it was not supposed to happen,” he said. Also read: #FloydShivambu: Call for disciplinary action after journalist's assault De Kock, was choked and hit in the face when he approached Shivambu for comment on Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille. De Lille’s disciplinary hearing is being held in Parliament. De Kock said he approached Shivambu for comment on the De Lille issue but was almost immediately pushed away. Shivambu and another unknown man also pushed De Kock in full view of journalists and Parliamentary staff. Shivambu later walked away after the scuffle when other journalists started to approach them. Shivambu walked into the Old Assembly when the fight was stopped. “As a loyal member of the EFF, I fully uphold media freedom and freedom of association, and the scuffle was not meant to suppress these constitutional principles. I will not do media interviews concerning the incident because I believe there are important other issues to speak about in the public discourse, than a scuffle,” he said. Mahlatse Gallens, chairperson of the South African National Editors' Forum (Sanef), expressed shock at the incident. “It is unacceptable for a Member of Parliament to intimidate a journalist whatever the circumstances. SANEF will take the matter up with the EFF. We welcome the fact that De Kock will go to the police to lay a charge of assault against Shivambu. "We call on authorities to thoroughly investigate the complaint so that Shivambu can be held accountable for his actions. We have repeatedly called on police to assist in this regard and despite the numerous and often public attacks on journalists, to date no perpetrator has been brought to book. "The failure by authorities to prosecute these attacks on journalists allows for a culture of impunity to continue,” Gallens said. The FF Plus condemned the incident and called on the Speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete, to take action against Shivambu. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus