The young Idols winner is jetting off to Sweden to perform for the royal family. “I’m going to sing for the Queen of Sweden in April. I still can’t believe it; I mean, why would she choose me?” Paxton revealed to the Cape Argus after performing at Huawei KDay at Meerendal Wine Estate along Durbanville’s Wine Route on Saturday. “I’m really excited to be performing. I mean, it’s an honour. They do it every year, and this year I was chosen to represent the youth so I’m feeling lots of pressure, but I’m feeling honoured as well.” Huawei KDay saw some 15 000 people descend on the wine estate to see some of South Africa’s top acts perform. It was a memorable performance with the crowd responding to their favourite artists. Shekhinah was one of the top performers, getting the crowd on its feet. Matthew Mole was also a firm favourite with the crowd. “It’s still something I’m constantly trying to learn,” Mole said about performing live. “How to engage with people and what they want to hear and what they want to be happening, so I have a lot to learn, but it’s an awesome experience just getting used to it. I’m still sorta new to it.” Mole was one of the stand-out performers of the day, getting the crowd engaged in his performance, as he played the drums, piano and ukelele much to the delight of thousands of screaming fans. “You know, I’m still learning this. I mean even off the stage, when you meet people at the shows, I always wanna be as nice as I can to people. That’s the kind of thing people remember, and it’s something I wanna get better at.” Mole said he plays at many festivals and Huawei K Day was among the highlights, with performers like AKA, Mi Casa, Jimmy Nevis, G&T, and Timo ODV rocking the crowd. The Kfm crew was also on hand to mingle with the fans, with the likes of breakfast team - Darren Simpson, Sherlin Barends and Sibongile Mafu - as well as Ian Bredenkamp, Ryan O Connor, Andy Maqondwana and Sechaba G up there hitting the stage.  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus