"Many residents have been living in houses here in Retreat, St Montague Village, Seawinds, and Steenberg for decades, but you could never call the place your own. Under apartheid, the government took away people’s rights to dignity and ownership as people of colour were not allowed to own property," said De Lille. "When we were elected into government we made a commitment to change that, and to undo the wrongs of the past through redress and reconciliation. "We are aware that many of you have waited and might have given up hope, but today we are handing over the proof that you now own the house in which you have been living. We are proud to share this moment with you, and to restore your dignity by giving you ownership of what could be your biggest asset." De Lille went on to explain how for many a title deed is more than just a piece of paper - it is a symbol of triumph over apartheid, and gives the residents a place to call their own. "Legally the house is yours, and you can ensure that it stays in your family for generations to come," she said. "You can invest in it and turn it into something that you and your family can be proud of. We encourage you to be responsible property owners and to take care of your house as the City will not be responsible for repairs and maintenance any longer." RELATED: Hundreds first-time homeowners receive title deeds from City of Cape Town The mayor said that the handover of title deeds aligns with the City's Organisational Development and Transformation Plan which is aimed at turning the City into a more customer-centric administration where excellence in service delivery and security of tenure are key priorities. It's a continuation of the work that was started during De Lille's 2011- 2016 term of office when more than 11 000 title deeds were issued to residents. "We wish the official home owners all of the best. We will be celebrating this milestone with many more residents across Cape Town as we give them their right to ownership."  @argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus