Cape Town - DA leader Mmusi Maimane says if Cape Town residents continue to save water the way they have, Day Zero - the day the taps will be turned off - will not arrive in 2018. "I am therefore happy to announce today that provided we continue consuming water at current levels, and we receive decent winter rainfall this year, Day Zero will not occur in 2018. This means the taps will stay open in 2018!" Maimane said in a statement on Wednesday. Maimane said less than two months ago, the City of Cape Town was in a dire position, with Day Zero expected to arrive on April 12. "We were facing an unprecedented crisis," he said. "As Leader of the DA, I was not satisfied with the way the city had responded to the drought crisis up to that point. While the responsibility for bulk water supply is inarguably the responsibility of the National Government, residents of Cape Town rightly felt that their local government had not communicated openly with them. Many residents blamed the DA, and as Cape Town is a DA government, it was important that I intervened to ensure that residents received the level of service and honest government that they expect from the DA. "I therefore decided to take political control of the situation, appoint a Drought Crisis Team - made up of the individuals sitting on this panel today - and commit to doing everything possible to fight this water crisis, on all fronts," Maimane said. In his statement, Maimane took the credit as Capetonians "rolled up their sleeves, and got stuck in". "When this decision was taken, our dam levels were sitting at 27.2%, with only 17.2% of usable water left. We made one thing clear: to fight this water crisis and Defeat Day Zero, we had to band together and mobilise public support around cutting consumption to record lows. "Residents responded magnificently, rolled up their sleeves, and got stuck in. Individuals, families, communities, businesses, private dam owners and many others. Everyone played their part in this city-wide collective effort to keep the taps open. "Each week, the water consumption steadily dropped, and we were able to push back Day Zero by days, and then weeks, and then months." Maimane said the aim was to increase augmentation projects to provide an additional 300 million litres by 2020.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus