Over 18 000 people participated in the event this year. The Big Walk was sponsored by Wholesome Breads and cooldrinks company Jive. The Cape Argus was  the official media sponsor for the event. “Today has been a great success. We are extremely fortunate to have a number of people here with us. "We have the editor of the Cape Argus, we have the deputy minister of home affairs here with us today, so it's a signal to us that Cape Town has invested in this cause wholesomely,” the marketing director of the Big Walk, Dr Elias Parker, said. Money raised at the event will go to four beneficiaries, including the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital; the Manenberg People’s Centre, which offers programmes for the community; and the state-of-the-art library in Lansdowne, the Academia Library. “At the end of the day we do this for a solitary reason, and that is to make a difference in the lives of those beneficiaries; and what Cape Town has done once again is step forward to show that an event can make a difference," Parker said. Organisers took into account Cape Town’s water crisis by deciding not to have water tables along the route. Instead, they provided runners with a 500ml water bottle in their goodie bag. Parker said the water crisis did not stop them from pulling off an event like this. “The prizes are incidental, and the water situation could not discourage people from attending this walk or to enter this walk. In this regard, we have come up with a plan that will negate the effect of the water crisis. However, people did not complain.”  The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Fatima Chohan, delivered the keynote address to runners at the starting line of the 10km walk. “Exercise is a very big part of this event, and  Cape Town has opened its heart to all the underprivileged who are in need, because all the proceeds will go to these well-deserving beneficiaries. It’s not about winning,” Chohan said. At the end of the race, runners were treated to live entertainment by dancers and local singer Nur Abrahams. Prizes such as an LED television, a mountain bike, smartphones and a training programme to the value of R12 000, sponsored by College of Cape Town, were handed out. The Big Walk started 18 years ago, and the idea behind the event was "to make a difference". To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A fun, healthy day out for good cause “I have been running since I was in school and I love participating in this event,” said Subiganiya Samuels, 60. Samuels has been participating in the big walk for more than 17 years. The 60-year-old, who is a stroke survivor, said the event helped keep her fit. “I enjoy this event because it's a benefit for others, as well as for the underprivileged,” Samuels said. She and her daughters took part in the event on Sunday. “It also gives me a chance to spend time with my daughters. They all have such busy lives, so this is a precious time for all of us,” she said. Samuels was not the only one who participated - Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille also put on her walking shoes and completed 5km. “This is a healthy lifestyle that we all should live, but as Capetonians we come together to support a good cause,” De Lille said. Prizes were handed out after the race. The main prize was two airline tickets to Thailand, which included accommodation and breakfast at a resort to the value of R50000. Kaylin Jooste from Eerste River won that prize, and broke down in tears on stage when she accepted her prize. “I am so excited I cannot explain it. I haven’t decided who I am going to take with me, they are probably going to fight about that at home later,” Jooste said. She celebrated her birthday on Thursday last week. “I am so excited to experience their culture,” she said. And while families were enjoying celebrations on the sports field in Green Point, attention shifted to a 74-year-old woman who completed the 10km walk in last place. Mara Alkin, along with her grandson Adam Sonday, came in at 11:57am. Alkin, who struggles to walk, used a walker. She was also assisted along the way by members of the South African National Zaká* Fund. @MarvinCharles  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus