Elese Depouche, a former ward councillor, died after he was shot at his home in Crossroads. He was axed as a councillor in 2015 after he was found guilty for a January 2013 incident in which he pointed a firearm at an elderly resident of Nyanga. Depouche’s death has however sparked renewed fears of attacks as ANC councillors are now living in fear. The protests in Philippi and Gugulethu have also added to their fears. Andile Lili, ANC councillor in Khayelitsha, who has been attacked more than once, said there was little protection for councillors. “We are not safe when we work in our communities. There have been similar attacks on me and I can speak of experiences and the very little that the government has done to protect councillors. We are the ones in our communities and we are at the face of service delivery. If there are problems, people run to us, and if we cannot give the answers chaos breaks out,” Lili said. He said in 2009 he was the victim of an assault and a burglary. “When we go to meetings at night, it is very dangerous. We finish up meetings, but the possibility of someone waiting in your driveway or even at your door with a gun in the hand is very possible. Councillors from both the DA and ANC move out of the townships, not because they have money, but because it is unsafe to live in their community,” he said. Gugulethu councillor Luvuyo Zondani said the protest situation in the area has put all councillors at risk. “There are certain volatile areas in Gugulethu. Since the protests have spread, we are all now at risk. There are times that people burn down everything. They burn our cars, they burn our houses. They damage infrastructure. When it gets like that, anything can happen. And that is where the danger lies,” Zondani said. JP Smith, mayoral committee member for safety, security and social services in the City of Cape Town, said councillors do not get protection and police escorts. “We as councillors are not above the public. But the problem is that councillors are at face level with thei communities and service delivery. When there are cases in which councillors feel their lives are threatened, they can apply for protection. In all cases, a risk assessment is done by the police and a decision is taken. Bodyguards can be deployed to a councillor in extreme cases. Bodyguards are contracted from external providers. They also have panic buttons which they can push when in need,” Smith said. He said there were cases where councillors are housed elsewhere until their areas became safe to occupy. “We had a case with a councillor where his house was burnt down. We then provided alternative accommodation to the councillor until his area cooled off. We are also aware there are attempts to kill councillors and it is really not hard to think that. Many of our councillors are under attack though,” he said. Western Cape MEC of Local Government Anton Bredell, said councillors' safety is dealt with by their respective municipal managers and other senior leadership.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus