Cape Town - This Cape Flats couple say they want to set the record straight around their gay relationship after becoming the objects of ridicule and gossip in the LGBTI community. Robyn-Lee Smith, 26, is a butch lesbian woman who fell head over heels in love with Rubee Lee Lucas, 22, a gay drag queen. The smitten pair says they have been together for a year, but still face an uphill battle getting accepted in the LGBTI community, with some saying they don’t belong there. Robyn has been dating women for years while Rubee prefers men. They say they fell in love against all odds, but, says an outraged Rubee, they are now being told that they are “just straight or bisexual”. “People are now telling me that I am in fact straight and not gay because I am involved with a woman. But we are still part of the Rainbow (the LGBTI community) because we can’t just be classified as straight when we have been dating our same sex partners for all of our lives,” says Rubee. Rubee says she’s known Robin for nearly 10 years and attracted to her masculine good looks, while Robin says Rubee’s feminine beauty bowled her over. “Robyn is sexy and I like sexy, but mostly, I love her softness and her loyalty. She supports me at every pageant,” says Rubee. Rubee says people are obsessed with their sex life, but says there’s nothing queer about it. “The sex remains conventional. I’m a male, she is female,” says Rubee. “I don’t see anything wrong with this. This makes me happy, regardless of the gender or what you’ve become accustomed to. “I don’t like to be labelled. I’m in pageantry and people question why I’m taking part in a gay pageant when I’m straight.” Robin says it’s the first time she’s been with someone with a penis, and it presents a whole new range of challenges. “This was my first sexual encounter with a male, it was awkward at first because I’m used to being with females,” she explains. “We do have unprotected sex, but we are careful because we have also thought about the risks, such as pregnancy. “Rubee has asked me to have a baby, but I’m not up for it. I don’t see myself giving birth or being a parent.” Rubee hopes Robin will change her mind. “Robin can just feed the baby with her breasts and I’ll do everything else, I like family and home life so I would love to have my own kids,” says Rubee. The couple live with Rubee’s grandmother, who “fully supports” us. “My mother isn’t happy with me, but I’m just living my life,” Rubee adds. The couple wants to encourage other “closet couples” like them to be free and unashamed. “If you find yourself in a relationship like this, look beyond what people expect from you and follow your hearts,” says Rubee.  venecia.america@inl.co.za   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 