The City said on Sunday theft and vandalism are compromising water supply security. “The City of Cape Town has been informed that theft from aquifer drilling sites is making it difficult for contractors to bring more water online timeously,” Mayoral Committee Member for Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services; and Energy, Xanthea Limberg, said. “Furthermore, theft of other City infrastructure often results in water running to waste.” RELATED: #EveryDropCounts: Treating effluent water will reduce water use in Cape Town This was resulting in delays of weeks at a time when the population could ill afford it. Currently, Level 6B water restrictions are still in place with no significant rainfall predicted for the next few weeks. Tools, batteries, vehicles and any materials which could be perceived to have scrap value were being targeted, she said. She would not say which sites specifically have been targeted as this could compromise matters further. “It is incredibly frustrating that even such crucial work is not immune from these destructive elements in our society. We are calling on any residents that may have information on these activities to please come forward with any information that could assist with investigations,” Limberg said. ALSO READ - #EveryDropCounts: Drought officially declared a national disaster Theft of the City’s water supply infrastructure has been worryingly common. In cases where fire hydrants, water meters and valves were damaged by thieves and vandals, the result was often water running to waste. Since July 2017, more than R5 million worth of hydrants, meters and valves had been stolen or damaged. “It is not possible to reliably say how much water has been lost, but in this time of scarcity, any water lost due to theft and vandalism is too much,” Limberg said. Residents could report vandalism to the City’s call centre on 0860 103 089, or the police on 10111. Limberg says taxpayers pay for any and all damage and theft to City infrastructure and urged people to piemp the skelms. “We need the assistance of the public to address this issue,” said Limberg.  dailyvoice@inl.co.za 