In Pholeli Park informal settlement a fire broke out and left over 100 people displaced and over 60 structures destroyed. “During the night the City’s fire and rescue services responded to three separate incidents that involved residential structures. In Pholeli Park one male minor has sustained fatal burns. All of these incidents have been handed over to the SAPS to investigate,” Cape Town Fire and Rescue spokesperson Theo Layne said. It’s believed the fire in Pholeli Park was caused by an illegal electricity connection. “What we know is that there was a wire that was not working properly and then the fire started,” community leader Zolisele Khundulu said. He added residents had no  alternative but to use illegal electricity connections because they don’t have any electricity. “Most if the residents here do not have electricity so they have to use it illegally and it’s very dangerous,” he said. Khundulu said they have had numerous fires in the area that are related to illegal electricity connections. It’s not the first time a fire like this has broken out in the area. Earlier this year around 150 people were left homeless after a fire broke out in the area. The residents suspected that the fire was caused by illegal connections. And last year more than 300 people were left homeless after a fire ripped through the informal settlement in Langa. “The community is very sad, we have lost another life and a young life,” Khundulu said. Fire fighters had a busy weekend. In Symphony Way in Delft 15 structures were destroyed and over 60 people were left displaced on Saturday. And in Altena Road near Strand one adult woman sustained fatal burns when a house burnt down. Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith conducted a Firewise campaign in the Burundi Informal Settlement on Saturday. “We handed out rulers and other materials to advertise 107 emergency call centres and explain fire safety to residents,” Smith said. He said they have made preparations to run a Disaster Risk Management campaign along with EPWP workers just before winter. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus