A highly entertaining and engaging line-up of local and international performers will light up Greenmarket Square for the city’s most exciting free open-air event. Kicking off the proceedings will be the CTIJF’s All Star Band, made up of a selection of talented young musicians drawn from the CTIJF Music & Career workshops. Up next will be espYoungLegends 2018 winner Jarrad Ricketts (SA), whose crooner style and chart-topping hits will have crowds moving and grooving; Alistair Izobell (SA) is guaranteed to stir up some dust as he unpacks a classic Cape party; and the compelling voice of Belhar’s Claire Phillips (SA) is set to deliver a forceful repertoire of funk, R&B and fusion.   Also prepared to dazzle the crowds with a range of township jazz, hip hop and Afro-pop, are the prize-winning three-part a cappella group, The Soil (SA). The trio’s beatboxing and polyphonic harmonies gel together as warm kasi-soul with subtle echoes of the kwaito.   Without a doubt, the party will be in full swing with international act Incognito (UK) and their brand of funky jazz and acid jazz. Expect a slick set, chock-a-bloc with party spinners and smooth fusion to close off the evening. The CTIJF’s Festival Director, Billy Domingo is more enthusiastic about this year’s offering than ever, saying: “We are always excited to be able to stage this free community event.  But in 2018, it is even more so, as this year we will be making Greenmarket Square the place to be on the eve of Human Rights Day.  This year we expect the festive atmosphere to be bigger than ever, but in saying so, I am asking everyone to party responsibly. Make sure you get to Greenmarket Square early, as this year festivities will begin earlier than usual.”   The Cape Town International Jazz Festival is a water-wise event. Concert-goers are reminded to please bring their own water to this free community concert, but bottled water will be available from vendors on Greenmarket Square. Official sponsors of the 19th annual Cape Town International Jazz Festival are the Department of Arts and Culture, Independent Media, AYO Technology Solutions and the National Lottery Commission. Other sponsors include host city, City of Cape Town and Peninsula Beverages. Cape Argus