Amy Biehl, an American Fulbright scholar, was killed on August 25, 1993, in Gugulethu after dropping off a friend. Her car was stoned and Biehl was stabbed to death. Her killers were later convicted, but in a heart-wrenching moment of forgiveness, her parents reached out to the killers, started the foundation and upon their release offered them skills and jobs. “It has been 25 years since her death and we pay tribute to Miss Biehl, who helped with bringing about change in South Africa. “The Amy Foundation, being a non-profit organisation, was founded by her parents to commemorate Amy and her devotion to the country,” the foundation said. It recalled Nelson Mandela’s words on September 23, 1998, when he accepted the Congressional Gold Medal, “Among those we remember today is young Amy Biehl. She made our aspirations her own and lost her life in the turmoil of our transition, as the new South Africa struggled to be born in the dying moments of apartheid. “Through her, our peoples have also shared the pain of confronting a terrible past, as we take the path towards the reconciliation and healing of our nation.” The Amy Foundation continues to make positive changes in the lives of young South Africans, while uplifting various communities and schools. The 13th annual Amy Foundation Gala Dinner, It’s a kind of Magic!, will be held tomorrow at the Century City Conference Centre from 7pm until 10pm. Performances at the event will feature Vicky Sampson, Larry Soffer, Chasing Time, The Black Ties. The 140 Amy Foundation Performing Arts pupils will also put on a performance, directed by Aviva Pelham, assisted by Roxy Levy and choreographed by Paul Johnson. Soli Philander will be the host for the evening. The Amy foundation raised approximately R1 million at the Amy Foundation Spring Ball last year that reached 2000 young children. The dinner aims to raise R1.2m this year towards an after-school centre. Joey Burke will host an auction including a European cruise courtesy of Uniworld, game reserve packages and various others. This will hopefully encourage guests to donate funds that will assist the after-school project and skills development among the youth. For more information, see: www.amyfoundation.co.za @TheCapeArgus  sukaina.ishmail@inl.co.za  Cape Argus