“What I mean is I really feel like eating a koeksister. “You know what, that doesn’t accurately convey how badly I want a koeksister right now. Nope, I really lus for a koeksister. No other way to put it.” Perhaps I should explain that language is a living, breathing thing, and that sometimes words cross over because they just fit the situation so well. For example, Cheslin Kolbe’s tuck and roll after his thrilling try against the All Blacks last week can only be described as a bollemakiesie, rather than a somersault. Similarly, sometimes your craving for something is so strong that it transcends language and enters a different, higher plain - the lus. And right now, if I haven’t mentioned it yet, I lus for a koeksister. But this being Doha and not Cape Town, koeksisters aren’t found on every corner. In fact, you can’t find them on any corner. With my mother-in-law around, I’m hoping my koeksister distress call will be heard. “Ridwaan, enough about the koeksisters. I know it’s been a while since we’ve had some, but please doughnut be so dramatic,” grins Shihaam. “Let’s rather chat about the South African Heritage Day celebrations being held by the embassy here in Doha this weekend. “There’s an opportunity for us to participate. Can I twistie your arm?” I roll my eyes, but I know there’s no way to get out of this one. To be honest, I have been looking forward to this year’s embassy event. Ambassador Faizel Moosa, who hails from Cape Town, and his team have invited the approximately 6000-strong South African community in Qatar to attend the “Ubuntu Bash, Heritage Day Bazaar” at the Doha Golf Club. The guest of honour, flying in from South Africa, will be Nelson Mandela’s grandson, Mandla Mandela, who is chief of the Mveso Traditional Council and also an MP. “The embassy is calling for people to sell uniquely South African goods and delicacies at the event. So far, I’ve seen food like pap, chakalaka, bunny chows, potjiekos, and boerewors rolls on the list. My mom and I thought we could put our names down for milk tarts and pies, and maybe one more item. Perhaps you can suggest something,” laughs Shihaam. Did I hear someone say koeksister? * Ridwaan Bawa, a former newspaper executive editor and magazine editor, is writing a weekly column about the life and experiences of a proud South African living as an expat in Qatar. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus