DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced Winde as the party’s premier candidate for the Western Cape on Wednesday after several days of drama caused by the party leader himself, after he had tried to install himself as the candidate for the premiership. “He has the full support of the DA’s national leadership team, his fellow candidates and the provincial leadership team in this province,” Maimane said. “Our colleague Bonginkosi Madikizela was also a candidate for the position and is the provincial leader of the Western Cape. He has pledged his unequivocal support to Alan and his graciousness is a testament to his calibre as a leader and to the strength of the DA’s processes.” But Madikizela said Maimane’s announcement came with some disappointment. “It is human nature one feels disappointed, but we soldier on. I will campaign for Alan, I will work with him to ensure the Western Cape DA retains the province.” Winde said: “I am humbled by the decision to allow me to stand for premier of the Western Cape. I am putting my best effort into all of this to make a change. A better life, a better school system, a better economy for jobs. There is still so much to be done, but we are ready to deliver,” he said. ANC Western Cape acting chairperson Khaya Magaxa said Madikizela and his faction had been used to canvas votes. “DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela and his faction were manoeuvred out of the way for Winde to walk the process. The DA’s choice of Winde is obviously a motion of no confidence in Madikizela, as the party shows it has no confidence in him to be able to govern. Madikizela in the eyes of its leaders is not good enough for the governance job; as a black man he is only good enough to bring votes to the DA. He must immediately resign. “The liberal faction in the DA has also blocked its national leader Maimane to become the Western Cape premier. Maimane knew the leadership pool in the Western Cape is found wanting and therefore he nominated himself as premier candidate, but he had to withdraw under pressure.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Magaxa said Maimane “falls around as he back flips and flip-flops to explain his turnabout. He is clearly a kept puppet. The voters of the province must deal decisively with this turncoat DA and its leaders”. Madikizela said: “I won’t comment on what those clowns say.” Maimane was unable to clarify whether or not he was pushed to stand for premier, or if he had decided to run of his own volition. “The DA’s constitution allows for any leader to place wherever in the party. I decided not to proceed in the interest of the party.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus