A resident, Franciscus Baars, said: “There are many loiterers and petty thieves in the area and they are usually armed with knives. "About two weeks ago, I witnessed a robbery in which two guys smashed in the back window of a car that belonged to a tourist. I was hanging out my washing when I saw them running and I shouted for someone to call the police.” Baars said he had been reporting any suspicious behaviour he witnessed in the area to officers and he feels the police have been responding well to crime in the area recently. “There is also a stigma around the homeless people in the area who are suspected of being the ones who are breaking into cars and robbing people. They are often the ones getting blamed when they are actually not the ones,” said Baars. He said the perception of the homeless people in Bo-Kaap should be changed because the criminals are not from the area. “I believe changing certain roads into pedestrian walkways will allow people to walk more safely, and more security officers being present will help protect the people and deal with criminals. “There will be a much better control of who is walking in the area,” he said. A resident who lives in Chiappini Street, who did not want to be named, said: “I want these people who are doing the crimes to go away and security in the street to protect us and the tourists. I hear people shouting for help almost every day outside my house.” The chairperson of the Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers association, Osman Shaboodien, said he is worried about crime in the area. “We are concerned about the muggings and robberies in the Bo-Kaap area. If we don’t stop it soon, it will continue. “We are planning meetings within the community to see how everyone can come together to stop it. “There is no law enforcement in the area. We are looking to deal with this issue within the next couple of weeks.” He said the criminals were coming from outside the area.“Everyone in the area needs to be proactive when it comes to reporting these crimes. They need to lay charges,” he said. @TheCapeArgus  sukaina.ishmail@inl.co.za  Cape Argus