This comes after four unions - the Democratised Transport Logistics and Allied Workers Union (Detawu), National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union, the University and Allied Workers Union, and the South African Liberated Public Sector Workers Union - joined forces in a dispute over wage increases and recruitment policies with the university. The university’s workers were locked in negotiations for two weeks with management. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said an agreement has been reached between the UCT executive and the unions following industrial action which affected some services on campus. UCT’s cleaning services in residences were affected on September 10, and the shuttle service suspended since last Tuesday. A few days after the suspension of the shuttle service, the catering staff in residences downed tools. Moholola said the agreement resolves long-standing demands related to issues of deep cleaning of residences, participation of a union-nominated representative in recruitment panels, and processes for raising concerns in the transport department. “Importantly, the agreement recommitted the parties to an established cycle for future negotiations,” said Moholola. He said all affected services resumed on Tuesday, and term time-tables for the shuttle are now available. “We deeply regret the inconvenience to students and staff as a result of services that were affected by the industrial action,” said Moholola. Detawu spokesperson Mayibenathi Matwa said the unions and the university management tried to meet each other halfway in resolving some matters raised in their meeting. He said the university’s cleaners, who perform seasonal deep-cleaning functions, are promised R1600 for four months for seasonal cleaning, meaning each worker will have an increase of R400 each month. Matwa said shuttle drivers were crying over inconsistent treatment by their transport manager, who employed his friends as drivers. “The university has agreed to probe its transport management,” said Matwa. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus