“We're deeply concerned that the perpetrators of this heinous kidnapping are still in society. We implore the SAPS and Ipid to deploy their available resources to find these culprits and bring them to book. We cannot have another kidnapping of this kind in South Africa again,” said MJC secretary-general Shaykh Isgaak Taliep. Taliep said they wish Parker a full recovery from his traumatic ordeal and that the family find some form of peace in his return. Plato has raised serious questions about the SAPS’s role in combating and preventing kidnappings involving prominent business people. “Had the police been instrumental in the return of Mr Parker, the Western Cape Government would be the first to congratulate them on a sterling job well done. However, the opposite currently seems to be true. "I believe that a ransom worth millions has been paid for the safe return of Mr Parker. The police have thus far remained tight-lipped about the investigation, leaving speculation to continue as to their involvement to return Mr Parker or capabilities to arrest those responsible,” Plato said. Parker was reunited with his family on Tuesday after being held captive for over two months. While no information has been forthcoming from the family of the wealthy businessman and where he was found, it's understood that a ransom was paid for Parker to be released. According to information, Parker was driving into the basement parking of his business premises in Stairway Close, De Greens, Parow, when an unknown double-cab LDV followed, and at the gate, the suspects forced the security guard into the toilet at gunpoint where they took his cellphone and locked him up. They then went into the basement, where they forced Parker into their vehicle and drove off. “We remain concerned about the kidnapping incidents involving prominent business people, for the apparent extortion of money. We are further concerned by recent reports of the kidnapping of children. These matters require priority attention from the SAPS,” Plato said. Hawks spokesperson Philani Nkwliase said: “All the cases pertaining to abduction are handled by our mother body SAPS. However, they have the mandate, so unless we are requested to assist we can unfortunately not handle these cases.” On Tuesday, the family issued a statement through a PR company called Networx, saying: “Liyaqat Parker's family has confirmed that he was safely reunited with them yesterday after being held in captivity for over two months. "The family is relieved that he is back and would like to request the media and public to respect their privacy during this difficult time. "The Parker family wish to express their sincere gratitude to everyone who has walked this journey with them and provided physical, emotional and spiritual support.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus