The competition challenges teams to design and build a greenhouse of between 55 and 110m², powered by only solar energy and equipped with technically advanced building and energy technologies. This should be done using local ingenuity, craftsmanship and materials. Among the senior lecturers, Mike Louw and Kevin Fellingham from the School of Architecture, Planning and Geomatics and Dr Dyllon Randall from the Department of Civil Engineering have been brought on board Team Mahali, which is based at Stellenbosch University’s Sustainability Institute, for their design skills and knowledge of innovative waste-water systems. “Part of the design theme is inspired by the central place of the tree in African culture: a place of meeting, education and important community decision-making. The house has been designed for conditions in Morocco but also for other African contexts,” Louw said. The competition is organised by the Moroccan Research Institute in Solar Energy and New Energies and the Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, under the aegis of the Moroccan Ministry of Energy, Mines and Sustainable Development, with the support of the US Department of Energy. Some of the materials used are locally available and recycled materials. The house will be built in Stellenbosch, then dismantled and shipped to Morocco for reassembly on the test sites in Mohammed VI Green City in Ben Guerir. During the final phase of the competition, the house will be open to the public. “We’re merging very hi-tech digital design manufacturing with traditional crafting in the making of an identity for the house,” Louw said. The design phase of the project is due in mid-November, after which the team move on to completing construction documentation. Team Mahali have received $50000 (R718000) in funding from the Moroccan government, but they still need to raise R3 million and are seeking funds and donations of furniture and energy-efficient appliances from retailers. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus