The charges relate to the alleged Bosasa kickbacks. Some of the officials implicated include ANC MP Vincent Smith, Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, former SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni and Deputy Justice and Correctional Services Minister Thabang Makwetla. Also implicated are former procurement manager of the Passenger Rail Agency of SA Mbulelo Gingcana, and former head of Correctional Services Linda Mti. Steenhuisen on Friday went to lay complaints at Cape Town Central police station. He said reporting the matter as a criminal complaint was in response to deputy president David Mabuza’s challenge in Parliament. “It is clear that significant amounts of money, gifts and upgrades to private homes was given by Bosasa to the ministers and other members of the ANC, allegedly in exchange for hundreds of millions of rand worth of government contracts. This speaks to the fact that we believe there was corruption and maladministration,” said Steenhuisen. Steenhuisen said he hoped that a proper investigation would be made and those found guilty, including officials from Bosasa and or cabinet, were brought to book. ANC chief whip office spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli said Smith and others implicated had indicated willingness to co-operate with the ethics committee. “We are not sure why the DA sees need for a criminal investigation when the ethics committee can and will thoroughly investigate the matter,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. It is alleged the ANC senior officials received security upgrades and other benefits from Bosasa - also known as African Global Operations - the facilities management that secured contracts worth R10billion from various government departments. These allegedly included: an alarm system, electric fencing and CCTV worth R250000 for Myeni’s house in Richards Bay; a recording system, perimeter lighting and CCTV worth R300 000 at Mantashe’s Boksburg, Cala and Elliott houses; an alarm system, CCTV system and electric fence valued at R350 000 for Makwetla’s house; and a CCTV system and electric fencing valued at R200 000 for Smith’s house in Roodepoort. Smith has allegedly received over R671 000 over the past three years and R100 000 in cash from Bosasa chief executive Gavin Watson on a monthly basis. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus