The award acknowledges the stories of journalists and the media as a whole in encouraging responsible drinking. The categories in the competition included Journalist of the Year, Best Up and Coming Journalist, Best Broadcast, Best Community Media, Best Magazine, Best Newspaper, Best Online Media and Media House of the Year. Three finalists were nominated for each of the categories and the winner of each category received R15 000 in cash. Charles was also nominated as a finalist for the Best Newspaper category. “When I got the call to say I was a finalist I was in shock because I couldn’t believe it. Winning this award just blew me away because it means so much to my team, editors and myself,” said Charles. “It was an amazing experience taking part in the Diageo SA awards. Initially, I didn’t want to enter the awards because I never win anything but last year I did a lot of stories about alcohol and I just submitted them all,” said Charles. Diageo SA allowed the public to get involved and all the finalists’ articles were open to a public vote on Facebook. Charles received the most votes on his article and won the Consumer Choice Award this year. “I can’t thank everyone enough for their support and in particular my family and my editors who firmly believed in me. “This award just gives me more motivation to pick up the microphone and hold it up for those who cannot be heard and continue to strive to make a difference in our society.” Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley said: “Marvin’s approach to his work is admirable. I am not surprised he has received an award like this. He is an inspiration to his colleagues and does not shy away from complex stories. He is an asset to this newspaper and it is an absolute pleasure to have him on our team. “I wished him good luck before the awards and again after he received an award. I told him that being awarded is what happens when we just keep working hard and give our readers the best we can. His award is also a tribute to the amazing team spirit in the newsroom.” @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus