A group called the Morningstar Development and Upliftment Initiative (MDUI) prevented elderly beneficiaries - some older than 70 - from moving into their state-subsidised homes. “In our community you have people waiting for years for decent homes, and we have highlighted that fact that some of the people who are beneficiaries do not live in Morningstar,” chairperson Zain Williams said. The group marched onto the development on Thursday morning and prevented the key handover from happening. They also blocked Langeberg Road and burnt tyres. “We are saying we don’t have a problem with people who are in need of housing, but look at our people first. The residents here live in the most horrific conditions, and urgently need accommodation,” Williams said. He said the residents just wanted to speak to mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron. The City has spent about R34.2 million on the Morningstar project, where 166 so-called breaking new ground state-subsidised houses were constructed. The court order interdicts MDUI members from entering the Morningstar property or to harass, threaten, intimidate, assault and interfere with the beneficiaries, officials and project steering committee members of the Morningstar development. “We will be opposing that interdict because we are saying that we want a chance to tell the City about our grievances. Give us a chance to engage with you,” he said. Williams said they had only one meeting with Herron, early last year, where Herron came across as being “cold” with residents. “I am saddened and disgusted by what happened in Durbanville this morning. “Pensioners, who have been waiting for decades for a roof over their heads, were denied the opportunity to receive the keys to their new houses in the City’s Morningstar development. These beneficiaries are among the most vulnerable in our society. They have been looking forward to this day for many years,” said Herron. He said one of the Morningstar beneficiaries turned 70 three days ago, and another beneficiary turns 79 next month. “We were hoping that these pensioners would have the joyous occasion of celebrating their next birthday in their own homes. This is a very sad day indeed,” Herron said. The matter will be argued in the Western Cape High Court on Monday. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus