This has put him in direct conflict with other pretenders to the throne, with provincial DA leader Bonkingkosi Madikizela, particularly upset. “It’s Mmusi’s right to stand on any list according to our constitution the question is whether that decision is in the interest of the party in terms of our national strategic goals, and I think not,” Madikizela said Sunday. Maimane was expected to make a public announcement on the DA’s Premier candidate for the Western Cape on Sunday, but the briefing was postponed at the 11th hour. Officially, the party said it wants to make the candidates for Premier and mayor of Cape Town known at the same briefing, but insiders said the announcement was postponed because Maimane is still working with party structures. Aside from Madikizela, other candidates include Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde; DA MP David Maynier; and Fazloodien Abrahams, who is a DA member and lawyer. It is understood that Winde came out as the highest scoring candidate. Maimane’s spokesperson Portia Adams confirmed that discussions are under way. “Mr Maimane is discussing it. His key consideration is what is best for the DA and for the residents of the Western Cape. He is still considering the matter and is in extensive discussions with party structures. There are a number of outstanding possible local candidates for this role, and he has reached no final decision as yet,” Adams said. The party’s priority is to ensure that it continues building on the gains of the past decade of government, she said. The provincial DA is expected to make an announcement on further outcomes on Tuesday. However, some sources said Maimane was imposing himself on the DA Western Cape structures. “There is an abundance of very good candidates who have applied. What happens to those people who have applied? It is really a slap in their faces. We have MECs who are in the running to take over from Helen Zille, but now they might be led by someone with no experience,” the source said. According to another source, Winde scored the highest in the interviews. “Going forward this is just going to cause more problems because there are people very unhappy about this,” the source said. ANC Cape Town leader Xolani Sotashe said Maimane has been interfering in the affairs of the province. “Why are people shocked at Mmusi’s announcement? We knew it all along. This man is nothing but a puppet. Africans in the DA , we warned you. Madikizela, it’s your turn now to taste betrayal from close friends,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus