Team A from the school were crowned victors while Steenberg High School Team A were the runners-up. South Peninsula won R35000 and R3000 for each member of the winning team. The Grade 10 pupils, who were runner-ups in last year’s quiz, were ecstatic. “It feels amazing,” said Mugammed Noordien. “I can’t explain it.” “It’s such an accomplishment, every year we have improved and now this year we actually finally won,” added Faatimah Schloss. The team which also consisted of Lindiwe Traut-Naidoo, Waseelah Edwards and M. Fuad Edwards hinted that this might be their last year. Before that though, they do still have nationals ahead. When asked how they felt, they said that they are prepared and ready to go for the top spot. Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley said: “This year’s quiz is a milestone as we mark 10 years since the first quiz. “It is both a cause for celebration and testimony to the passion and hard work of the people who have made it their mission to contribute to making it the success that it has become. “It is also a recognition of the efforts of the schools who have participated in the contest over the years. “We know the teachers play an integral part in the preparation for the quiz, their tireless efforts to bring out the best in the pupils must be lauded.”      Head of sustainability for the Food Lover’s Market Group Andrew Millson said: “Food Lover’s Market is so proud to be a part of such an event and proud to be part of the process which really helps inspire, empower and promote education. “It’s an extension of the community work that we do. I want to say a massive thanks to the teachers and thank you to each and every one here for the hope and inspiration you provide because I genuinely feel like our future is in such great hands.” Good Hope FM’s Nigel Pierce was the quiz master for the finals and while Pierce looked very suave in his green suit, he was not messing around. He was ruthless when necessary and charming when needed, but it was clear that he was having a ball. “The Cape Argus High School’s Quiz is one of my favourite MC/quiz master gigs,” Pierce said. “We all learn from this great concept and long may it continue. “More importantly it encourages everyone to read, gather and store information.” Both South Peninsula and Steenberg High School will move on to compete in the National High School Quiz on September 27 in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20000 for the school, R5000 for each team member and R5000 for the team’s educator or coach. @TheCapeArgus  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus