Plato also dismissed claims that he was a puppet used by the DA. “Every political party has rules and manifestos. If the opposition says I am a puppet of the DA, then I guess we are all in the same boat,” he said. Plato will replace Patricia de Lille as mayor after she vacates the office on October 31. Plato said when he takes office on November 1 he will start working in the DA caucus. “The task is always to improve the service delivery and ensure that those who need the services receive the best there is. "The biggest stumbling block to deliver decent services is corruption. We know that corruption eats away at the funds meant to service the people and in Cape Town we will ensure that there is a city government free of corruption,” he said. He pledged that housing issues would be addressed before the situation reached epidemic levels. “There is a great need for housing in the city and we will have to get cracking to deliver more houses. The apartheid spatial planning is also an issue that needs to be tackled because transformation remains important. It cannot, however, take place overnight. "There are regulations that need to be followed but that will not stop us from addressing the issue,” he said. Plato said the recently released annual crime statistics were a clear indication that crime was the city’s biggest challenge. “As an MEC for Community Safety, I have visited many municipalities and seen the challenges that the police face. The police are there to protect our people, they cannot install street lights, build roads to access areas and install CCTV cameras. That is the responsibility of the municipalities. "Now that I am mayor I can actively drive these projects to enable the police to do their job without obstacles,” he said. Plato said he was aware of the challenges within the DA caucus but intended to work together with all councillors. “I am well aware of the situation in the caucus. There are various things we have to look at and ensure that the caucus is united. Consultation is the key to understanding everyone’s concern. Even when it comes to the listening to the public, we will consult,” he said. This week, Plato intends visiting De Lille, deputy mayor Ian Neilson and City manager Lungelo Mbandazayo. “Once there, I can see what needs to happen and how to take things forward," he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus