If you are looking for enthralling activities to take part in this long weekend, here is a fun look at everything happening. * Enjoy the laid back side of Franschhoek with delicious country-style food and weekend family braais at The Bistro at Grande Provence, on Heritage Day. The Heritage Day Braai will be held under the oaks on the lawns of the new Bistro. Platters of local artisanal cheeses and fresh west coast oysters can be ordered separately. The Heritage Day Braai and subsequent weekend braais on Saturdays and Sundays, are available at R320 per person for adults and R160 per child under 12. The braai starts at noon and pre-paid booking is essential. * Pinelands Tennis Club will play host to this year’s LGBTI Tennis Open taking place on September 22 to 24 at 9am to 5pm. * One of the oldest wine farms in the country, Spier will also be celebrating this weekend. From bunny chow and boerewors to dhaljties, oxtail potjie and malva pudding, you’ll feast on a wealth of flavours and cultures. The event will take place on September 23 from 12.30pm, and starts from the Spier Hotel. Cost is R450 per adult, R225 per child under 12, and bookings can be made at events@spier.co.za. * The Cape Winelands will host the first FALKE Full Moon Hike of the season on September 24 at Delvera Farm in Stellenbosch. Becoming increasingly popular, the FALKE Full Moon Hike caters for hikers of all ages. The leisurely 9.7km circle route starts at the Dirtopia Trail Centre and meanders through the vineyards and the majestic yellow wood forest to the top of Klapmutskop. The meeting place will be Dirtopia Trail Centre at 5pm. RSVP by today with Christel on 021 8844352. * The Amphitheatre at the V&A Waterfront will host the Robben Island Museum South African Freedom Songs on September 23 from noon to 5pm. Entry is free. * Glowing Rooms SA - 18 holes of glow-in-the-dark mini golf - is a fantastic option, and it is offering a special price of R110. As an added bonus, when playing in a group of four, you only pay for three. This offer is valid from today until Monday. Opening times Friday and Saturday, 10am to 8pm and Sunday and Monday 10am to 4pm. @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus