A group called the Kenilworth Racecourse Environment Action Group (KREAG) has been left fuming after it emerged that development plans are earmarked for a section of the Kenilworth Racecourse property. “We are opposing the City’s decision because clearly it was not thought through and we are taking on the mayor’s approval,” co-ordinator of the group Dr Clive McDowell said. The action group has objected to the controversial development, which is expected to see a mix of hotel, residential and retail components built on the land. But at the crux of the controversy are major environmental concerns surrounding the proposed 6.8-hectare development, which was signed off by outgoing mayor Patricia de Lille. De Lille apparently dismissed appeals to halt the development. “We want the decision of the mayor to be put under review. We see it as a conflict of interest because she knows the board of directors of Kenilworth Racecourse very well; we know he is a generous funder as well.” The area is home to some of the most valuable examples of Cape Flats Sand Fynbos remaining on the Cape Peninsula. It houses more than 300 plant species, 80 bird species, 11amphibian species and a healthy reptile and mammal community. The area also serves as an education hub teaching pupils and community members about the significance of nurturing the environment. “The conservation cause has thus been catapulted into new orbit. The race is now on to beat the 180-day deadline to set aside the mayor’s controversial decision.” Among some of the plans in the pipeline for development are 498 residential units, a hotel and a shopping centre. Sarah Alcock, of Wildlife and Environment Society of SA (Wessa), said: “Wessa is very concerned about the development. The Kenilworth Racecourse is a very important conservation area.” Kenilworth Racecourse board director Hassen Adams said: “We have maintained the biodiversity of that nature reserve. The plans went through a public-hearing process and was approved.” Adams said the group did not have any information pertaining to the development plans. De Lille said: “I will not enter into the merits or the demerits of the matter because any group has the right to take the City of Cape Town’s decision on review. The process allows for any party to take a matter to the high court if they are not satisfied.” She also rejected claims that she has any interest in the proposed development. “The portion of land that the development is to be built on is not the issue, but rather the land close to it. The environmentally-protected area did not form part of the application.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus