The rank closure was a result of a shooting between the rival groups last week where two innocent commuters were wounded. Cata provincial chairperson Victor Wiwi said they are trying to resolve the problems at Bellville taxi rank. This follows after two commuters were injured and hospitalised during violence that erupted between Cata, Bellville Taxi Association (Bellta) and Bloekombos-Wallacedene Taxi Association. MEC for Transport and Public Works Donal Grant said Bellville Taxi Rank remains shut, as well as all surrounding roads leading to the rank. Grant said after consultation with the police and the Taxi Registrar, the Bellville Taxi Rank has been closed until the situation is assessed to be safe again for commuters. He said the registrar has also informed both associations of their suspension with immediate effect. “Violence had broken out between the two warring groups in July this year, compelling the Department of Transport and Public Works to appoint a mediator in an attempt to reach a peaceful resolution,” said Grant He said police and traffic authorities have already implemented operational plans to secure the Bellville interchange. He said it is unacceptable that disputes within the minibus taxi industry continue to be violent in nature. “There is no dispute that cannot be resolved peacefully and through reaching consensus. I implore taxi industry leaders to promote peace among their ranks and to prioritise the safety of commuters above all else.” One of the commuters, Siyavuya Cwenga, said the inconvenience is frustrating. “I come from Kraaifontein, we have to be dropped at Nobel Park and walk a long distance to take another taxi.” Another commuter, Linda Sintwa, said it was mostly frustrating for the elderly. Meanwhile, Minister of Police Bheki Cele said, in Bonteheuwel, police were not informed of the Department of Transport’s decision to close Bellville Taxi Rank. “As partners, we were not told about the decision to close Bellville taxi rank. I smell politics on this,” said Cele. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus