The theatre’s Heritage Festival will “celebrate our diverse cultures and identities through indigenous, contemporary and international artistic works in dance, music and jazz”. Artscape said it aims to “promote social cohesion and inclusivity of our unique, colourful cultural heritage”. “The festival provides residents of Cape Town, itself a melting pot of divergent cultures, with a platform to encourage dialogue about their values, aspirations and visions as we work together towards a united, inclusive and dignified South Africa,” Artscape added. As part of its programme, the Jungle Theatre Company presents a children’s theatre production, The Magic Shell, an African folk tale “set in ancient times when the first people go on an adventure in search of stories”. “They discover magical animals and the stories come to life in English and isiXhosa with original songs and unique masks,” reads the synopsis. “The play encourages children to tell imaginative stories and to read. It fosters pride in our heritage and language, connects us to nature, brings laughter and opens up channels of creativity.” The Magic Shell runs in the Arena until tomorrow, with two shows today, at 10am and 11.30am, and one show tomorrow at 10am. Tickets cost R50. My Miriam Makeba Story, meanwhile, will showcase the rising star status, locally and internationally, of Sima Mashazi in the Arena from September 13 to 15. Mashazi performed the role of the young Miriam Makeba in the first international musical Mama Africa, which toured in both the US and South Africa. This experience deepened her admiration for Makeba’s music and the woman behind it. In this show Mashazi shares the themes in Makeba’s music and life that touched her and bear similarities to her own journey. Coenie de Villiers and renowned author Deon Meyer return with their box office hit Karoo Suite/Katrina, a musical ode to the Karoo in the Artscape Theatre from September 19 to 22. The second half consists of the debut performance of the dance production Katrina, Die Dansende Taal, based on the life story of Katrina Esau, the last remaining fluent speaker of the San language N/UU. All tickets are available through Computicket or Artscape Dial-A-Seat on 021 421 7695. @yazkam  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus