The production, performed and created by Pollsmoor inmates under the support of the Second Chance Theatre Project, is a collaborative arts and social justice initiative. Nicro, a non-profit organisation which specialises in social crime prevention and offender reintegration, together with the Department of Correctional Services and UCT Associate Professor cVeronica Baxter from the UCT Centre for Theatre, Dance and Performance Studies (CTDPS) joined forces to challenge the public’s perception of criminals. The CTICC came on board as a venue sponsor for the Mission (I’m) Possible stage production as part of its corporate social responsibility programme. The free event will take place at the CTICC on Friday and Saturday, as a two-day event and will additionally feature an art exhibition showcasing art works by inmates and former offenders. The intimate performances will provide a different perspective and glimpse into the lives of prison inmates. Mission (I’m) Possible highlights the dreams and aspirations of inmates and demonstrates that they are more than the crime they have committed. “The performers are goal-oriented and firm in their belief that they have a real future beyond the prison walls as they commit to returning to their communities as contributing individuals,” says Venessa Padayachee, advocacy and lobbying manager of Nicro. Mission (I’m) Possible follows the success of Nicro’s - The Making of a Criminal Parts 1 and 2 which took place in 2016 and last year to much acclaim. This year’s production, devised and directed by Veronica Baxter, Chiedza Chinhanu and the cast, once again uses theatre as a healing tool and a rehabilitation strategy to offer inmates a meaningful life after prison and to facilitate successful reintegration. The initiative strives to challenge guests to see offenders as members of our society and to acknowledge that society has a vital role to play in the rehabilitation process. Nicro chief executive Soraya Solomon said civil society and ordinary members of the community play a crucial role in breaking the cycle of crime and violence. “We cannot reduce the high levels of crime and violence in our country without every citizen’s support to ensure that we find solutions to this daunting challenge. “Supporting former offenders to turn around their lives, walk away from further crime and return to society as an asset rather than a threat is a very workable and effective way of doing just this,” Solomon said. The production is working in close collaboration with the ‘Backabuddy’ campaign - an online fund-raising platform used to help raise R15000 to assist with the necessary costs involved in Mission (I’m) Possible. Funds raised through the ‘Backabuddy’ campaign will be used for healthy meals and refreshments at rehearsal space and performance venue. If you wish to support the campaign by donation to Nicro, visit the website https://www.backabuddy.co.za/mission-im-possible Tickets to the performance can be booked through Quicket here: https://www.quicket.co.za/events/57945-mission-im-possible/ Quicket enquiries: +27 424 9308.      TRAILER: The Making Of A Criminal PART 1 (Prison Theater Performance at Artscape Theater, Cape Town 2016) from Help I'm Free on Vimeo.  For more information:   Visit the event Facebook page - https://www.facebook.com/events/278275886122985/  Contactable References: Natasha Meyer (Nicro) - 021 462 0017 | natasha@nicro.co.za Zane Groenewald (BackaBuddy) - zane@backabuddy.co.za  @iwanderfam  miche.edwards@inl.co.za  Cape Argus