More than a thousand people attended the service hosted by the company at its premises in Somerset West. Premier Helen Zille, Denel chairperson Monhla Hlahla, shareholder representative at Rheinmetall AG Dr Dirk Niebel and chief executive Norbert Schulze took to the podium to express their support for the families of the eight workers. Family members became emotional as family representatives paid tribute and shared memories of their lost ones. Zille said: “It has been very powerful to see the extent to which the community has pulled together. This tragedy has brought you all together. “We see everyone as part of the Western Cape family.” Schulze also expressed his support: “I urge you all to remember these men who have brought value to this company. “I encourage everyone to express their grief and take up the counselling offered, be there for one another and give support to one another. It is only through that process that healing can begin. “Everyone in this company, no matter what qualification, grade or religion, counts,” he said. Staff also took to the podium to share memories of their colleagues. One used the opportunity to apologise to the chief executive. Worker and community member Jacob Jafta said: “I am taking this opportunity to apologise to our CEO for comments made by members of the community. “Mr Norbert does not deserve that. “This place is not a monster, I want to make that straight,” he said. “I would not be working here for 40 years next month if it was that,” he added.   RDM shareholder representative Niebel said the safety and security of staff were of utmost importance. “Please rest assured that we will stand with you.” Denel chairperson Hlahla expressed support to the families of those lost and said they would do all they could to get to the bottom of what had transpired on the day the men’s lives were lost. “We tell you today we will leave no stone unturned to establish what happened. “We are not in the business of hiding anything,” she said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus