On Thursday, Police Minister Bheki Cele said the investigation into the murder case was making progress. Cele said there was a shootout between the police and a gang the day after the killing of the policeman in which someone was shot dead. RELATED: Family of slain cop search for answers He said the dead person cannot be identified, but there was a strong suspicion that the deceased was connected to the killing of the policeman the previous night. Katoyi, 39, was gunned down in Site C, near the Site C Plaza, on Monday after responding to a complaint. Six men attacked him and his colleague. He died at the scene and his pistol was stolen. His colleague was rushed to hospital for medical attention. Cele, with his deputy Bongani Mkongi, visited Site B Police Station where Katoyi worked, as well as the murder scene and his home in Mfuleni. “They murdered our member on duty. We had to come and see the family as well as the police, but also try to speak to the community to be part of the people bringing in terms of maximising policing in this area,” he said. At the murder scene, Cele was confronted by Site C residents who called for a police station to be build in the area. The resident said they have to use taxis to travel to Site B Police Station and Lingelethu West Police Station. They said often they did not have taxi money nor airtime to make calls. Resident Noma-Africa Lingani said: “We need the police to patrol and do raids in this area. There are a lot of illegal guns in Site C. This place is so dangerous that at times on our way to work we come across dead bodies in the street. People who were killed during the night.” Khayelitsha cluster commander Johann Brandt told Cele that the 360 degrees surveillance cameras were not working. “Crime is not just about police, it’s a chain kind of reaction including the work of other departments. There is a number of 360 degrees surveillance cameras that have been out of order for eight years. We need to work with all levels of government.” Cele promised Katoyi’s widow Ntombothando Katoyi that their three children’s education costs would be covered by the Police Trust. “Police will assist in funeral preparation and will do a memorial service on Tuesday. Your husband died in our hands, while on duty serving the nation,” Cele said. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za   Cape Argus 