Cape Town - Green Point Athletics Stadium was a hive of activity on Tuesday morning as thousands of serniors geared up to take part in the Cape Town Games for Older Persons. "The Green Point Athletics Stadium is currently busy filling up with an estimated 4200 participants for the Cape Town Games for Older Persons by bus and taxi from across the City," City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for safety and security; and social services JP Smith said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "About 60% of the people here will be participating in the field and track events. The remainder are spectators supporting their clubs.  All participants are older than 60 years. "This is an annual event that forms part of the Social Development and Early Childhood Development Department's programmes for older persons. The goal here is healthy living and active ageing. "The Games form part of the City’s objective to raise awareness on services available to older persons and to promote healthy living and active ageing. Senior clubs and organisations for the aged are invited to participate in an activity filled day for older persons. "There will be track and field events including bowl a hole; basket ball; duck walk; brisk walk; wheelchair pegging event; French boulles etc. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "We've also partnered with numerous other organisations like the WC Department of Health who will assist with health screening and related advice, as well as a focus on socio-economic aspects that impact on the lives of our older persons," he said. There are 80 volunteers from False Bay College assisting today to help the 340 senior clubs with their event. "The event is getting more and more popular every year and the City hopes to increase it in size next year when SDECD run the event in conjunction with Recreation and Parks," Smith said. @IamAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus