This includes the provision of an additional 115 bed spaces and 40 Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) job opportunities. “The City’s EPWP aims to help facilitate and create employment opportunities for those residents who are in need of financial relief. At the same time, it facilitates the development of practical work experience and in this instance it will alleviate the load at night shelters,” Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security and Social Services, JP Smit, said. ALSO READ - Danny's Diary: We need rain but wet weather is very hard for the homeless "The City will give out aid to seven organisations that successfully applied for assistance during winter. This consists of food, blankets, mattresses, toiletries and cleaning materials to assist with an expected increase in the number of street people seeking shelter in winter. "Every organisation that applied was subjected to a meticulous vetting process. They all have overnight facilities that comply with the City’s relevant health and safety requirements. "Each successful applicant also had to agree to a site inspection before final approval was granted. A memorandum of agreement was signed between the City and the respective organisations this week to ensure that all parties comply with their roles and responsibilities. "Winter is an especially hard time for people living on the street and often there is an additional burden on the organisations that assist them. "We want to do what we can to help them provide street people with access to warm bedding, food, and toiletries as they cope with an increased demand when temperatures drop. Homeless shelters are essential in ensuring that street people are properly cared for in a safe environment,” Smith said. He commended the many workers and volunteers who give of their time in the city’s homeless shelters. Some organisations that will be getting the aid include the Elim Night Shelter in Elsies River, Happy Valley Home in Simon’s Town, Oasis Reach for Your Dream In Philippi, Tygerberg Association of Street People in Bellville and Ubuntu Circle of Courage in Delft. The City has urged the public not to give handouts directly to people living on the streets but to donate them to organisations and shelters. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus