The annual quiz encourages high school pupils to test their knowledge of news and current affairs that can be found within the pages of the Cape Argus. The quiz has become one of the most fiercely contested high school competitions, with more than 100 teams entering last year, all competing for the top prize. Each school may enter a maximum of 3 teams of 4 learners plus 1 reserve per team. RELATED: WATCH: Maitland High School crowned #HighSchoolsQuiz champions Maitland High, last year’s champions, walked away with R35 000 for their school, and R3 000 for each of the four winning team members. “It’s so amazing as we’ve been waiting for this for three years,” said Maitland High’s Moses Ishimwe. The competition involves strict quiz masters who put 40 questions to the teams at each quiz round, with teams scoring five points for every correct answer, and losing three points for anything they get wrong. Topics include politics, sport, entertainment and general news. This year, the winning school will receive R35 000, the winning team will receive R3000 per team member. The winning school will also receive a bursary from Varsity College worth R75 000. The total value of prizes to be won is valued at R200 000 Many regulars are expected to return this year, but new schools are encouraged to enter, too. Last year Sea Point High was one of the schools that took part in the quiz for the first time. Asked why they had entered, the Sea Point team said it gave them an opportunity to do something “non-school related”. “The extra-mural activities offered by any school have an important role to play in a child’s holistic development. The quiz is also a platform where learners can broaden their understanding of the world around them,” they said. “Teachers will often say that the learners’ frame of reference is very limited, simply because they do not read. Learners are unable to interrogate a text because they lack the skill and broader knowledge to do so. “The quiz will therefore go some way to broaden their understanding of the world out there.” ALSO READ: Cape Argus Schools Quiz set to test pupils wits This will also be the first time that the top two teams of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz will go on to compete in the National High School Quiz. Independent Media’s Daily News, Pretoria News, The Star and Cape Argus newspaper titles are partnering with Varsity College to bring you The National High School Quiz. Borne from the Cape Argus High School Quiz, which this year celebrates its 10th anniversary, the National High School Quiz will have its beginnings in four regional quiz events held in the Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town and KwaZulu-Natal regions. “We’re extremely excited to collaborate with Independent Media again to host the National High School Quiz,” says Sane Ndlovu, IIE Varsity College National Events and PR Consultant. “The positive response received last year after hosting our pilot project was very encouraging. We now know how important this initiative is to schools and we are proud to be in a position where we can make an impact in the lives of young people through a fun educational initiative such as this.”    The National High School Quiz will ultimately be held in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton Campus on Thursday, September 27, where eight school teams will quiz it out for the national title. In addition to this prestigious accolade, there are also fantastic cash prizes up for grabs. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20 000 for the school, R5 000 for each team member and R5 000 for the team’s educator or coach. The national runner-up will receive R10 000 for the school, R2 500 for each team member and R2 500 for the team’s educator/coach. National quiz questions will be based on content published on the IOL website and will be drawn from the following categories: current affairs, sport, business, politics and entertainment. This broad, media-based approach will encourage competitors to actively engage with current events and important social issues – and makes the quiz unique as well as fun and exciting. “This exciting school competition represents a synergy between young people’s thirst for knowledge and Independent Media’s commitment to empowering them to be active, engaged and involved citizens. It will give learners an opportunity to bring honour to their school, and will give us the opportunity to engage with future audiences on a live, entertaining and competitive platform,” says Greg Le Roux, Group Executive: Events. Entries open from Monday 9 April until Friday 20 April. Entry forms can be found in the pages of the Cape Argus newspaper, and online.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus