The Tribute Wall will be “another interactive platform in honour and celebration of  Mama Winnie’s iconic life of selflessness, courage and patriotism”, the ANC said on Sunday. “The platform will allow members of the general public to sign their own desired messages of condolences and support dedicated to the Mother of the Nation,” the party said. The wall was set to be unveiled at 11am on Monday, 9 April. ALSO READ - LOOK: Mourners gather to remember #WinnieMandela Meanwhile, the party’s Western Cape leadership would be honouring Madikizela-Mandela at a provincial memorial service today, 9 April 2018. “The ANC in the Western Cape, along with our alliance partners, will hold a provincial memorial service for Mama Winnie Madikizela Mandela on Monday, April 9, 2018,” ANC Western Cape secretary Faiez Jacobs said. “This provincial memorial service, along with like services across the country, is to celebrate the life of Mama Winnie,” he said. The memorial is due to take place at 5pm at the O R Tambo Hall in Mew Way, Khayelitsha. All Western Cape residents are welcome to attend. “We remember Mama Winnie as a leader with a selfless dedication to the needs of the less fortunate and a relentless contribution to the betterment of our people,” Jacobs said. “We honour her for withstanding the deplorable circumstances she faced, for many decades, for our freedom. “We are forever grateful to her for her remarkable courage and support of many who lost their loved ones so senselessly
at the hands of the apartheid regime,” he said. RELATED: How #WinnieMandela unlocked a warder’s heart Jacobs said it was in the Western Cape that Mama Winnie came to give critical support “to our people who were wounded and killed, whilst protesting against the second seating of the tricameral parliament in 1989”. The EFF also has plans to honour Mama Winnie in Brandfort, Free State, where she was banished for eight years in 1977 by the apartheid regime. The party plans to host its memorial on the same day as the national memorial service on Wednesday, which is due to be held at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto, Joburg. Brandfort was a fitting place for the “revolutionary who carried aspirations of black communities on her shoulders,’’ the EFF said on Saturday. EFF leader Julius Malema called leaders of the ANC “patriarchs” intimidated by her popularity and quest for the rights of the poor and oppressed black people. Malema said the ANC should hang its head in shame after it “deserted” her when she was accused of killing teenage activist Stompie Seipei. He added that she had played no role in Seipei’s death. Madikizela-Mandela will be buried at Fourways Memorial Park, north of Johannesburg, where her great-granddaughter Zenani Mandela was buried in 2010. Zenani was the granddaughter of the Mandelas’ second child, Zinzi. Zenani, aged 13, died in a car accident after attending the 2010 World Cup kick-off concert at Orlando Stadium. Staff Reporter/Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA) Cape Argus