Provincial secretary of the SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) Andre Adams said they were against the wage and that they would be taking to the streets on Thursday in protest. “As Saftu we are clear that there is no new dawn, but it rather being a case of the same old wine packaged in a different bottle, just as Jan van Riebeeck stole our land by distracting our forebears with their shiny objects. RELATED: Department of Rural Development staff protests for better conditions “This deal says nothing about the massive salaries of the CEOs and politicians. “The pay of executives in the country’s top 100 companies is not R17 million per year, which amounts to R69 000 a day or R8 625 per hour.” However, Cosatu’s national general
secretary, Sizwe Pamla, said they 
had noted the “ hysterical and frenzied” attacks directed at the union and their sister federations that participated in the debate and process leading up to the National Minimum Wage, Basic Conditions of Employment and Labour Relations Amendment bills. The national minimum wage will come into effect from May 1 and will see workers entitled to earn R3 500 a month. “We just find it bizarre that we have recently been fielding attacks coming from workers’ representatives who are opposed to the process of building a foundation that will help us transform the low-wage regime that has characterised our labour market for decades. “It will help them feed their families and increase their purchasing power and drive local economic demand, and thus stimulate the economy. “ There is no one saying that workers should be paid R20 an hour, but our argument is that no one should be paid below R20 an hour, as is currently happening to 47% of South African workers.” The wage will guarantee that workers get R20 an hour, and the only exceptions to this will be farmworkers, who will be guaranteed at least R18, domestic workers R15 and expanded public and community works programmes (R11). The Federation of Unions of SA (Fedusa) said they would not support calls to march against the national minimum wage. “Despite the practical compromises that organised labour had to make during the minimum wage negotiations, we should never lose sight of the fact that more than 4.5 million vulnerable workers currently earning below R3 500 a month - including domestic, farm, retail and personal services workers such as hairdressers - will be lifted out of abject poverty by its official implementation.” @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus