The idea behind the “Department of Happiness Affairs” is based on the principles of The Theatre of the Oppressed, a form of community-based education that uses theatre as a tool for social change. Sonke Gender and Justice advocacy specialist Marike Keller said refugees and asylum seekers were some of the most marginalised people in country and often faced discrimination in addition to major administrative burdens when applying for or renewing their permits at the DHA. RELATED: Home Affairs stumped by 'invalid' passport issued to Maitland soccer teen This was proven in the closure of the Cape Town Refugee Reception Office (RRO) in 2012, she said. “The conditions of queuing and applying for permits are despicable and the fact that the RRO office is still not open means people need to travel thousands of kilometres to different provinces to get asylum. It is inhumane. "This exaggeration of happiness, empathy and welcoming is how we would like refugees to be treated,” Keller said. At the event, outside Customs House, tents were erected and refugees danced to music in the spirit of irony. Micheline Muzaneza, refugee coordinator at Sonke Gender Justice, said refugees who needed permits were required to travel to Musina, Pretoria or Durban. “A one-way trip to Musina costs about R1 500 by bus, excluding accommodation and food and return fare. And when you are there, you are given a return date that can be in a month, three months or six months for renewal. This is not right, and most people who come to Cape Town come straight from the border - they do not know that we don’t have a RRO office here in Cape Town,” she said. ALSO READ: Home Affairs a shambles Muzaneza said new mothers with no permits cannot get birth certificates for their children and this impacts on their children’s application at schools. Serafin Zirhamana, from the Congo, said his wife struggled to renew her permit due to financial difficulties. “She got her permit in Durban but it has expired now. She can’t work to make money to travel and what I make is not enough either. We face the danger of her being fined for not having the right paperwork. This makes us feel unwanted in a country that we came to, to seek refuge." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Since the closure of the RRO office, there had been a long legal dispute. The latest judgment handed down by the Supreme Court of Appeals (SCA) ordered that the Cape Town RRO be opened by March 31 and for monthly affidavits to be submitted to the courts for update. Popo Mfubu of the UCT Refugee Law Clinic said it was likely that the Legal Resource Centre would make a contempt of court application to the SCA. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus