George Maskini, 13, from Brooklyn, near Maitland, first had his dream crushed when his teacher raised funds to participate in a soccer tournament in Phuket, Thailand, only to find out that he didn’t qualify for a South African passport because both his parents were from the Democratic Republic of Congo. Then the deputy minister of home affairs stepped in and handed him what his mother thought was a passport, but turned out to be travel documents. He then missed the tour to Thailand. On hearing of George’s plight, Rostoem Simons, from Simsport Eagles, offered him a spot in their team trip to Dubai. But then the unthinkable happened. His exasperated mother Bampende Maskini said the team, with George, was ready to leave on Sunday. Maskini said that a week ago she went to Home Affairs to get confirmation whether the passport that was given was active. “I met the management who did the application originally and they told me that the passport is valid and that George is ready to travel,” she said. She also went to the Emirates Airlines offices because she wanted assurance that George could travel. “They checked the visa in the system, the ticket, the copy of my ID, the unabridged birth certificate and the passport, and they said George is ready to travel,” his mother added. On Sunday, when George was scheduled to leave along with his team, he was stopped. “My family and I were travelling on the N2 home because we left George at the airport when we got a call from the coach who told us we need to rush back as there’s a problem,” Maskini said. When they arrived they were told by immigration that the passport was cancelled and declared lost and stolen. “I thought this is impossible; how could this be? I never saw my child cry so much,” she said A heartbroken George sobbed as he watched his teammates leave while he was left behind. “I cannot tell you how I feel. This has really started affecting George; he can’t eat and he cries in his asleep,” Maskini said. She added that she was heartbroken and crying nonstop. Yesterday, George received a new passport but the visa that he had for Dubai had to be cancelled, and now he has to apply for a new one which can take a day. “I feel very upset that this happened because I really wanted to play overseas and I haven’t been feeling very well since all of this happened. It really hurts me,” the youngster said. “It’s extremely disappointing that once again George had to be disappointed.  Home Affairs should really have gone the extra mile to alleviate this current situation. We hope it gets resolved and George can join his teammates on tour,” Simons said. The Department of Home Affairs said it would provide answers on Wednesday. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus