Department of Correctional Services regional spokesperson Simphiwe Xako said regional commissioner Delekile Klaas held a lengthy behind-the-scenes meeting with the provincial police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula. “This meeting centred around intensifying proactive and effective mechanisms of detecting any similar future potential incidents, the spiralling gang activities in correctional facilities around the Western Cape, and strengthening other areas of co-operation between the two institutions,” Xako said. The stabbing incident occurred on Sunday at around 8am as the wardens were unlocking cell C10 to prepare daily meals for prisoners. RELATED: #PollsmoorPrison: Three escaped prisoners rearrested “Accounts received from other inmates revealed that an offender, who had been transferred from St Albans in Port Elizabeth, had bragged to the other offenders that he was a general of the 28s gang. He was then immediately forced to prove his claims. That is when he allegedly stabbed the officials who had opened the cells to tell offenders they could have their breakfast,” Xako said. The wardens were rushed to N1 City Hospital where they were treated and later discharged. Xako said the inmate who had done the stabbing was placed in an isolation cell and the facility was on lockdown. He said an emergency support team consisting of 150 officers from the police did a search-and-seizure operation in cells. They confiscated one cell phone, a charger, sharp shaving blades and a few self-made knives. Meanwhile, boiled water was thrown at an inmate after a fight between the 26s and 28s gang broke out. The inmate was taken to hospital for treatment. ALSO READ: How 16 prisoners escaped from Sun City Earlier this year, four department officials had to be rushed to hospital after boiling water was thrown at them by inmates while doing a search operation at Pollsmoor Prison’s Medium B section. SA Prisoners Organisation for Human Rights (Saphor) spokesperson Golden Miles Bhudu said the department was failing to break the numbers culture in prisons. “It’s a tragedy to still have a challenge on how to deal with numbers gangs. We need to put prisoners to work where they can earn a stipend and pay for medical treatment, save for their families and contribute towards a victims trust fund.” Meanwhile, the search continues for 16 remand detainees from Johannesburg Correctional Centre, Medium A. They escaped at around 3am on Monday. They apparently escaped through a pipe shaft and used an object to break the wall, then proceeded to the fence. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za   Cape Argus 