A number of men and women in blue from SAPS Tygerberg cluster were awarded medals for 20 to 30 years of service at a medals parade was held at Goodwood Civic Hall on Wednesday. Families of three officers who died last year and were due to receive their medals were also honoured. Pastor Norman Mudau, said: “This day brings forward memories of your beloved ones. Be encouraged and strengthened by the sacrifices they made to ensure that citizens are safe. They are our fallen heroes and heroines.” RELATED: Reward offered for conviction of cop killers Captain Anton Abrahams died of a heart attack while on duty in July last year. His emotional wife, Lynette, couldn’t stop her tears from trickling down her cheeks as she was given her husband’s medal and a flower bouquet. “This brings back all the memories of him and how he could’ve been. I still miss him so much.” Tygerberg cluster Commander Moses Memela thanked the blue uniformed members for their undying commitment to the service. “This is a very important symbol to say thank you. You have been working in the police under difficult conditions. You survived brutal killings directed at us 
by criminals. You do not act like cowards and run; you stick to the oath you took. “We are policing in difficult days where a few can come and say thank you, but many are quick to criticise us.” He challenged the long-serving officers to teach incoming constables. “This is the time where the remaining years in service, are for you to plant and make a change in one or two incoming constables’ lives. Show them some of the old ways of doing things to ensure that the service continues.” ALSO READ: 'Police failed murdered mother of 4-year-old sex abuse victim' A  recipient of a 30 years’ service award, Bambelela Ngxaki, said he was happy to receive the medal, but was concerned about police killings in the province. “We work under strenuous conditions. We don’t know who we sinned against  for us to be targeted like. Our job is to protect citizens. We are easy targets,” he said. Another recipient, Iris Lawrence, said as a woman it was tough working in the service, but she was lucky to have her husband, who is also in the service. “I am very proud of myself to have made thus far 30 years, it’s not 30 days. We just have to put God forward in lives.” @Zoey_dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus