Patterson, who started the project in January, celebrated his 100th hike milestone yesterday, having not missed a single day.  He has hiked 667km, with 70km of that being vertical climbing, which is equivalent to scaling Mount Everest 19 times. Reaching this milestone, Patterson shared what he had learned on his journey about his capabilities and strengths. “I’ve learned how patient I am, and relearning how steadfast I am when it comes to committing to something bigger than myself. Truth be told, I’m only just beginning to learn what I’m capable of as I scratch the surface of my challenge this year. RELATED: Kosta seeks to summit Lion’s Head 500 times in a year “This entire experience is even greater than I ever imagined. The people I get to meet, the conversations that we have on the mountain, the enthusiasm for people to get behind this to make a real difference in this country,” said Patterson. Patterson managed to raise R159 639.78 towards his R1-million mark through donations to BackaBuddy, in aid of non-profit organisations Habitat for Humanity, One Life for Kids and The Sunflower Fund. But he still has a long way to go. Although Patterson hasn’t missed a single climb, he admits that it hasn’t always been easy. “Climb 26 was the toughest. The wind was exceptionally strong with gusts of up to 80km an hour at the top. The tablecloth cloud was essentially reaching the road, it was so strong. “Walking up in wind like that is dangerous in the sense that once you stand tall after taking a step you can get blown off the mountain, so each step you need to remain as close to the ground as possible and pretend to be Gollum from The Lord of the Rings,” said Patterson. ALSO READ: Is Cape Town still safe for tourists after mountain knife attacks? Luckily he hasn’t always been alone on the route. As many as 184 climbers have accompanied him up the mountain, which he said gave him the motivation to get up every morning and to focus on what he has set out to achieve.  To find out more about Patterson’s hikes, visit www.facebook.com/events/1864321336971227/.    @IamAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za   Cape Argus 