Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said the continued killing of police officers remained a serious concern for the committee and must be dealt with urgently. “The killing of officers is a direct affront to the authority of the state and constitutional order,” Beukman said. He called for the communities to assist the police with any information. “The committee extends its heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased officers. May they find strength at this difficult time. The committee also wishes the injured officer in Khayelitsha a speedy recovery,” said Beukman. ALSO READ: Gangsterism a concern in Cape prisons after two wardens stabbed Constable Ncedo Theophylus Katoyi, 39, was shot dead after police came under fire when they responded to a complaint in the Site C area. No arrests have been made. Yesterday, Community Safety MEC Dan Plato offered a reward of R100000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the killers. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula expressed shock at the killing. “It is disheartening when police officials assisting community members become targets themselves. Police are there to protect and make communities safer.  We are doing our best to get to the perpetrators,” he said. Local detectives and the Hawks are following leads as part of the investigation while SAPS officers from the Khayelitsha police station and the Katoyi family are receiving trauma counselling. RELATED: Two in court after Brown’s Farm killings Plato has condemned the murder “in the strongest possible terms”. “It is for this reason that I remind the law-abiding residents in our communities that the Department of Community Safety’s R100000 reward still stands for anyone with information that will result in the arrest and successful conviction of cop killers in the Western Cape.” Plato also said sent his condolences to the bereaved families. “It is important to remember that police killings, however unrelated, remain the vicious acts of individuals who do not represent the sentiment of the broader community,” Plato said. Staff Reporter  Cape Argus 