Indego Consulting presented the findings of its study on the PHA to the standing committee on economic opportunities, tourism and agriculture. “What the department wanted us to do is to discover what the value of the PHA is and find out what is its contribution to the economy,” Indego’s team leader Karen Harrison said. RELATED: Preserving farmland a top priority for activists The PHA had created more than 3000 direct jobs and 30000 indirect jobs. Harrison recommended that the PHA be spared any development beyond the pending approved developments already in the planning phase. She did not specify whether the pending developments should go ahead. “One of our concerns is we know there are applications pending, and we want to know what is the formal recommendation and why the report could not go further,” ANC MPL Cameron Dugmore said. He also wanted to know the nature of the policies recommended to preserve the area’s farming heritage. Among the recommendations was that the area’s agricultural potential be enhanced. “The question is how do we move forward, and during those engagements with the City and provincial government, did they indicate that the developments will be reversed or stopped?” Dugmore asked. Developer Oaklands City plans to build 30 000 homes in the area. Permission was granted to rezone the land for residential use in 2016, but the development has since been halted by a court application brought by the Schaapkraal Civic and Environmental Association. “We cannot deny that there is a huge housing crisis in the City,” Dugmore said. Darryl Jacobs, acting deputy director- general for the Department of Agricultural Development and Support Services, said engagements with Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela were “tough”. ALSO READ - [WATCH] 'Stop ecocide of our oceans' “There was contestation surrounding this. We engaged with the MEC last week and we acknowledged that the need for housing is significant,” Jacobs said. Madikizela said there should be a balance between housing and food security. “You need to look at this in context; the PHA is a rich area that supplies vegetables and grows our economy, and on the other hand, you have part of the area that’s already developed. We need a balance between producing food and delivering houses,” Madikizela said. Standing committee chairperson Beverley Schäfer welcomed the findings. The City’s mayoral committee member for transport and urban development, Brett Herron, was to appear before the committee in the coming weeks, Schäfer said. The report will be released to the public on Monday afternoon. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus