The department’s officials briefed the Western Cape Legislature’s standing committee on education about the Western Cape Provincial School Education Amendment Bill. Members of the committee peppered officials with questions on the sale and consumption of alcohol, raising concerns over existing social ills in communities. RELATED: Education Bill will see schools ‘become shebeens’ ANC MPL Theo Olivier said: “I still don’t understand. This will never get my stamp of approval. This section should have been deleted from the amendments. “I have a view that this whole section should just be taken out of the amendments. It brings to us more social problems. We are trying to get liquor away from school, but here we are doing this now. “If you give the head of department the responsibility to approve and deny applications on the sale and consumption of alcohol, he or she is becoming a policeman on the issues. “I hope the public will hit us on this one. I really hope so. It makes me boil, I take a beer at a pub or at home. Not at a school. That is just wrong.” DA MPL Lennit Max said: “This bill will be subjected to the public. The selling of liquor cannot be used as a financial tool to help schools. What about the moral implications? This just can’t be right.” ALSO READ: Setting the record straight on alcohol at school functions The selling of alcohol at schools is one of several controversial proposed amendments to the Western Cape School Education Amendment Bill, which was approved for processing by the legislature. The new provisions mean that applications for the sale or consumption of liquor on school premises or during school activities have to be sanctioned by the head of department, and the conditions will be subject to any conditions imposed by the Western Cape Liquor Act, 2008. Lynn Coleridge-Zils, director for policy co-ordination said: “One of those issues was that parents don’t attend school events anymore. Parents have a drop-and-go mood. Schools are losing revenue, schools must raise additional sources. “Education is becoming more expensive. “Some of the schools have beer gardens and potjiekos competitions. “All schools must not have alcohol in the school, it remains the school’s decision. “In rural communities, schools host these type of events, like car shows where alcohol is consumed. “Here it is just giving schools an opportunity to do what they can to raise money.” Sandile Banjwa director of education advocacy group USiba Loluntu in Gugulethu said: “Alcohol and high-crime rates go hand in hand. In township schools, the girls are drinking more than boys. “They come to school drunk and that is not right. How can you agree to such an active act. The townships have shebeens, tshisa nyamas (braai entertainment areas). “In other areas there are no such facilities close to schools.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus