While doing her in-service training, Rafferty contracted multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. She was in her second year of studies but did not let the disease hold her back, as she graduated with the class of 2017 on Monday. “Taking the medication was the worst, but my studies gave me hope to move forward and to complete my medication, because I always wanted to be a nurse.” Her treatment included 15 tablets and injections daily and Rafferty said the side effects were not easy on her, but she was determined to complete her studies. “It would make your stomach feel like it was burning and you would feel dizzy, so I had a trick and I would take it at night so I could sleep afterwards and not feel them as much.” RELATED: Village PhD graduate reaches for the stars Owing to her illness, she graduated a year later than the class she began the course with. “I was happy for them when they all graduated but I felt like I was meant to be there, but life happens to us and you learn and grow from that.” She said she still could not believe she managed to pass her exams and obtain her bachelor in nursing. “It still feels unreal, but it is a very exciting feeling and now I am working in ICU. I never thought I would be working in ICU. It is very busy, but I am learning a lot there and the people are very helpful.” Rafferty said she was grateful to have found a friend who supported her through her treatment and studies, as well as a supportive family. “We always travelled together, but then I had to get medication everyday from the clinic and I would leave later. But then she started waiting for me and travelling later with me.” UWC communications officer Harriet Box said she was the first nursing student from the School of Nursing known to have contracted MDR-TB. “Due to the side-effects of the medication, she sadly suffered a partial loss of her hearing. Contrary to advice given to her by family and staff in the School of Nursing to suspend her course of studies, Bronwynne continued to persevere.” She said that Rafferty was given a clean bill of health in January 2016 after she was diagnosed in May 2014. “Bronwynne Rafferty is an inspiration to all nurses,” said Box. @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus