This is exactly what educators at Ellerton Primary School in Three Anchor Bay have been facing daily, since last October, when construction on a block of flats began at a nearby plot. Principal Carolyn Cannon said pupils at the school have been unable to focus during lessons due to the noise coming from the site which is unbearable and leading to discipline issues in class. “The noise has been constant since last year. I received no notification of the construction. RELATED: School in Hazendal gets hardware update “Assessments are going on and we can’t work like this. Everyone has to shout across the classroom, one teacher spoke about trying to do corrections, but the pupils couldn’t hear her. “We have to keep the windows closed because everything is covered in dust. The Grade 3s are little and need guidance every day. “We contacted the ward councillor and the City. We called Law Enforcement who said that they’re (the construction company) compliant, so I don’t know which way to go,” said Cannon. Ward 115 councillor Dave Bryant said he met the principal on site last month and discussed the noise issue, making recommendations on how the school could address the challenges going forward as the construction work is not in contravention of building regulations. “After being on site with the headmistress I could appreciate the issues relating to noise. This is why I advised her to ensure that all noise outbreaks were reported to law enforcement when they occurred so that action could be taken,” said Bryant. ALSO READ: Failing our kids when it comes to sex education Mason Developments director, Joshua Kilian, said he engaged with the principal and offered suggestions to find a compromise on the issues the school faced, but his suggestions were turned down. “A couple of months ago it was hot and they said that they couldn’t open their windows because of the dust. “We sent over a few fans and they sent it back, they didn’t open it. I don’t know what else we can do. We are happy to help and accommodate them,” said Kilian. Kilian said excavation on the development should be completed in the middle of next month and the entire development is expected to be completed mid-year. Mayco member for Transport and Urban Development, Brett Herron, said the school did not complain to the City, but he recommended the School Governing Body engage with the developer to see if there was a way to mitigate the impact of the noise on the school and its pupils. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus