Last year, 1 934 claims were made, and over 360 have been made in the current financial year. In response to a parliamentary question, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said the department paid R391.32 million in medico-legal claims in the 2015/2016 financial year. The most common reasons for claims included maternity and obstetric claims as well as orthopaedic and cerebral palsy claims. An associate at DSC attorneys, Tom Cockcroft, said people were more aware of their rights in terms of medical care. ALSO READ: Khayelitsha Hospital services slammed “As a consumer, you consume a medical service. It's a service like any other and you are entitled to hold the providers accountable. There has been a shift from the culture of people accepting when a doctor has done wrong.” He said there were a number of factors driving people to come forward. “The burden on the state facilities plays a role in this. A number of the staff at state facilities are overworked and the support available is not what it should be.” For a claim to be successful, Cockcroft said, there had to be proof that harm was suffered. “There has to be a plausible link. The way that harm is determined is if you suffer loss in terms of medical expenses as a result of treatment or loss of earnings as a result of the treatment, and also pain and suffering.” Professor Sylvester Chima, who is the head at the Programme of Bio and Research Ethics and Medical Law at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, believes that the high number of lawsuits in South Africa is in part due to the legal framework which both governs and protects patients and healthcare providers. “A good example of this is the law around termination of pregnancy, which provides for termination up to 40 weeks of pregnancy for severe congenital abnormalities. This means that if a doctor fails to diagnose a severe abnormality, the parents may sue the doctor for maintenance costs for the child.” Chima said another example is the law which obligates health professionals to obtain signed consent from patients before providing their services, but which many doctors do not adhere to. Chima suggested that the current system relies on "righting a wrong" through the courts, which by its nature was expensive and adversarial. He believes that instead, the system should make provision for compensation without involving the courts. “A compensation fund, similar to the UK’s Clinical Negligence Scheme Trust, where cases are mediated and settled, would save on expensive legal fees but still compensate those who have been affected by medical negligence,” he said. @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus