Over 100 teams have entered from 52 schools. Spine Road High School, Rylands High School and Milnerton High School are a few of the teams who are returning to compete. Also Read: Entries open for all-new, national #HighSchoolsQuiz The annual quiz encourages high school students to test their knowledge of the news and current affairs that can be found in the Cape Argus. The competition involves strict quiz masters who will put 40 questions to the teams at each quiz round, with teams scoring five points for every correct answer, but losing three points for what they get wrong. Topics include politics, sport, entertainment and general news. This year, the winning school will receive R35000 and the winning team will receive R3000 per team member. Up for grabs is also two bursaries offered by the Community Chest. “Community Chest is celebrating our 90th anniversary and our primary area of investment is to ensure the future of the youth of the country. The quiz is an exciting opportunity for the youth to engage academically,” said chief executive Lorenzo Davids. RELATED - WATCH: Maitland High School crowned #HighSchoolsQuiz champions The maximum value of the bursaries will be R90000 to coincide with the organisation’s 90th anniversary. “The annual Cape Argus Food Lover’s High School Quiz is a highlight on our events calendar,” said Cape Argus editor, Aziz Hartley. “I want to congratulate all their teams for having entered, and would like to urge their schools, parents and school governing bodies to give them all their support. “While we thank Food Lover’s Market for helping make this event possible, we’re also very pleased that the Community Chest has offered two bursaries as prizes. We look forward for a very exciting contest.” This will also be the first time that the top two teams of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz will go on to compete in the National High School Quiz. Independent Media’s Daily News, Pretoria News, The Star and Cape Argus newspaper titles are partnering with the IIE’s Varsity College to bring you The National High School Quiz.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus