The National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) led the way with members. They said the engagements that they have had with management and labour relations from national office has since deteriorated to a point where they decided to protest. They also claim that it has become evident that management does not respect the union. “We have decided to protest because there is unhappiness among workers. One of the issues is the working environment. It is evident that the chief director has been treating the department as her own property,” regional secretary of Nehawu Baxolise Mali said. He added that the issue of labour within the department stretches beyond Long Street. RELATED: Love thy Labour: Who is an employee, what are their rights? “Whether the minister decides to accept the memorandum or not we are going to escalate this issue and take it further,” Mali said. Among some of the grievances listed in the memorandum ranges from lack of confidentiality from human resources on employees’ personal issues, the lack of clear policy guidelines leading to management committing acts of corruption, employees forced to work overtime without compensation and they claim that they have been intimidated and the abuse of power by chief director Juanita Fortuin. But their time protesting outside the department’s offices proved to be fruitless as no representative accepted the memorandum. Employees have also raised issues of the vacant posts that have not been filled which leads to department branches being understaffed and employees overworked. “We are prepared to take this further and have the public protector investigate these issues. We also want the portfolio committee to look into this as well,” Mali said. He also added that they will be protesting today outside the department offices again until they accept the memorandum. In KwaZulu-Natal in February staff downed tools which brought the province’s deed’s offices to a standstill. “The department will study the memorandum and the staff’s grievances and will reply as soon as possible,” the department’s spokesperson, Vuyani Nkasayi, said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za   Cape Argus 