CAPE TOWN - Absa bank has confirmed in a statement that it is currently experiencing technical issues with its digital banking services. On Twitter, the bank said to customers on Wednesday morning, that there were a number of issues currently affecting its banking app and online banking channels.      "We are currently experiencing technical challenges with our Banking App and Online Banking channels. Our team is working on a fix & your patience is appreciated. Apologies in advance for the inconvenience this may cause. We thank you for your understanding and support. “We are currently experiencing technical challenges with our Banking App and Online Banking channels,” it said. “Our team is working on a fix & your patience is appreciated. Apologies in advance for the inconvenience this may cause. We thank you for your understanding and support.” At 08h05 its mobile and internet banking apps were not accessible via smartphone or web browser. Users took to Twitter to express their concern:     In other Absa news,  Barclays Africa announced in March that it planned to reclaim its African identity by changing its name back to Absa across the continent in the next two years. Chief executive Maria Ramos said the rebranding was part of a journey in building a banking group Africa could be proud of. Ramos said Barclays Africa spent more than a year conducting extensive research among its clients and customers on the proposed rebranding. “We spoke to more than 1300 00 customers and clients on the name change. This is not Absa as you know it. It's Absa that reflects African culture,” said Ramos. The agreement also made a provision for Barclays Plc to contribute £765million (R12.44 billion) to fund investments required for Barclays Africa to separate from the group. READ ALSO: The people have spoken and Absa listened READ ALSO: OPINION: Cheerio to Barclays, welcome back for our Absa TOP STORY: INFO: What you need to know about the general national strike - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE