Mayor Patricia de Lille was in Kraaifontein where she and other City officials outlined the budget and relief available for poorer residents. “We are encouraging the most vulnerable in our society to make use of the financial assistance on offer to those who need it most. “Many residents are struggling to cope and are not aware that there is help available to them. The proposed social package includes almost R1.5bn for indigent relief and approximately R1.5bn in rates rebates,” she said. ALSO READ: #DeLille ready to challenge fresh DA bid to oust her The budget, and sharp increases, most notably a 26.9% increase in water and sanitation, have raised the ire of most ratepayers. De Lille said the indigent support package empowers vulnerable residents by helping them with municipal bills, debt arrangements and alleviating the financial burden in these tough economic times. “In doing so, we enable vulnerable residents to take care of the other needs of their loved ones. There are many pensioners, single parents, unemployed and disabled residents who are struggling, and the City understands the daily battle for many households to make ends meet. “There is no need to rake up debt or to skip on any of the other needs of your children and family when help is available,” she said. De Lille encouraged residents who meet the criteria to register for indigent support to apply, as every bit of help makes a difference. “Residents who live in properties valued at R100000 and below qualify for 100% rates rebates and refuse removal relief. “These residents also receive 10500 litres of free water and 7350 litres of free sanitation removal. Apart from property value, the City also uses household income as a factor to determine which residents qualify for assistance,” De Lille said. Where the gross monthly household income is R4000 or below, these households can get a 100% rates rebate. There is also assistance available where the household income is below R6000 per month.” RELATED - #EveryDropCounts: #DeLille lashes City team over budget underspend Applicants for indigent relief will need proof of identification (ID book/card), a bank statement for the last three months or a sworn affidavit stating they do not have a bank account, a bond statement for the last three months or a sworn affidavit stating they do not have a bond account, and a copy of the estate documents if the applicant has inherited his or her house. For the employed, the latest salary/wage payslip or a letter from an employer stating your income, a sworn affidavit if you are self-employed stating how much you earn per month and proof if you receive a disability grant, maintenance grant or pension would be needed. For the unemployed a sworn affidavit stating that, and that you have no other income will be required. Applicants can visit their municipal office. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus