Thousands of people, from babies to grandparents and tourists, lined the streets of Cape Town yesterday watching in awe, and in many instances even participating, as the minstrels took to the streets. “This is one of the most important events of the year for Cape Town and receives the most financial support from the City of any event. This year the City has given more support - both in money and resources - than any year in the past,” said City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for Safety and Security; and Social Services JP Smith. Smith thanked the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association for their professionalism and hard work in pulling the event together - and encouraged participants to enjoy themselves to the full. Muneeb Gambeno, director of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association, had previously explained the set-up of the parade, revealing two stages, one on the Grand Parade and one in Wale Street, for the troupes to showcase their skills. “We are particularly proud and excited to this year include the Riel dancers, performing the ancient celebratory dance of the San, Nama and Khoi. We look forward to making this an integral part of the Cape Town Street Parade as we recognise and honour our cultural heritage,” Gambeno said. The crowds - the organisers expected 60 000 to 100 000 people - cheered when the Riel dancers came on.  Many Cape Town celebrities and social media stars such as Marc Lottering, Siv Ngesi, Yaaseen Barnes, Irma G, Sep and Simon, and Devdondidit were also spotted at the parade, some participating in Klopse troupes. Smith said many have a vision of this street parade growing and reaching an international audience, with people from around the world travelling to Cape Town especially to celebrate its history and culture. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Elroy Schroeder, who was captaining Baruch Entertainers, one of the Klopse troupes, shared his excitement in participating in the parade. “This is our first year in the Klopse, and we’re loving it,” he said. “The preparation for it has been tiring, but we’re looking forward to going past the City Hall for the first time as a new coons group.” A troupe member from All Stars Entertainers, “Mr Dunbar”, said he had been part of the Klopse for 50 years, and there had been many changes. “It’s grown for the kids - today things are all about the money, but we’re here for the fun.” The official theme song for the parade was also unveiled, which is something organisers seek to make a yearly feature for the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade. This year’s song, It's Tweede Nuwe Jaar, was performed by Loukmaan Adams. Smith said he sees the Cape Town Street Parade getting bigger and grander than ever before, while still maintaining its 
cultural heritage, “should the right people be involved”.   theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus