Cape Town - Higher education and training deputy minister, Buti Manamela is happy with the progress being made by the National Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). NSFAS was thrust into the deep end after President Jacob Zuma announce free higher education late last year. Manamela visited NSFAS offices on Tuesday where he fielded calls and assisted students seeking funds. “It is important that institutions like NSFAS are top notch and up to scratch, so they can be able to deliver to those students that need it the most," Manamela said. Manamela said most queries that came through his office were around Nsfas and that prompted his visit. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I am excited to have seen how they operate and I am excited about the system NSFAS has put in place and I know the team is up to the challenge to deliver in one of the most challenging tasks post 1994.” He urged those who benefited from NSFAS loans in the past to pay back the money so new students would be afforded the chance to get funding. “The collection in the last financial year has actually quadrupled and we are excited about that. It has gone from a couple million to about R1 billion and we urge students or working people that have benefited to pay it forward  by repaying their loan.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. As of March 31, 2017, NSFAS recorded a loan book with a cumulative nominal value of R29.8 billion. Net new loans issued during the year increased by 100% to R5.4 billion from R2.7 billion in the previous year. The valuation adjustments due to non-repayment of amounts due, deferred payment terms and concessionary rates came to 70% resulting in a net increase in loans recognised of R1.7 billion. NSFAS CEO Steven Zwane said they saw an increase in the number of applicants and that kept them on their toes. “We had sleepless nights and no december break but we do it to give access to higher education to tranform their lives.” Zwane said they received around 312 000 applications and funding was granted to 70 000 students and the application window for 2018 closed on November 30 last year. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “When we reopened the applications last year the process has a domino effect ad created a backlog that resulted in outcomes being communicated late to applicants and funds released late to universities and colleges. Therefore we took a strategic decision that we will not reopen for late applications against to avoid these problems.” Sizable Tono from Khayelitsha was hoping to get good news from NSFAS regarding his application. He was assisted by Manamela as he visited the walk-in centre. “I applied to study Marine Science at CPUT and have been accepted and now I just need the funds. I really hope I get the funding because I really want to study and change my life and my family’s,” he said.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus