Comedy Central, the global comedy brand that is part of Viacom International Media Networks Africa, today announced that Trevor Noah, Executive Producer, Writer and Host, has selected Loyiso Madinga to helm topical segments for the African broadcast of The Daily Show with Trevor Noah.
 
“As wild as Donald Trump is for America, many countries around the world have Trumps of their own and since ‘The Daily Show’ is in many countries, we thought ‘why not give each country a chance to show off their stable geniuses?.’” said Trevor Noah.
 
“I am really excited to create a voice for local satire. What is really great is this places an authentic spotlight on local comedy and presents a reality that combats the stereotypical perception of Africa. Being part of the Daily Show, I get to join the best conversation in the world,” said Madinga.
 
Inserting local relevance to the global hit, the South African-based correspondent’s segments will air intermittently on Comedy Central across the continent with this regionally targeted report replacing some of the main edition's original content. The first piece, a field report from the African National Congress Elective Conference, will debut in Africa on Comedy Central (DStv channel 122) on Thursday, January 11, at 9:30pm.
 
Commented Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director for Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN Africa): “One of our key objectives as Viacom International Media Networks Africa is to provide a platform via our brands for great African talent and content.  We are excited that through this localized segment on Comedy Central’s The Daily Show, Loyiso, has an opportunity to continue showcasing his great comedic talent to audiences across Africa and around the world.”  
“Loyiso’s comic timing and fast thinking humour make him the ideal choice as a Daily Show correspondent. He is indicative of the diverse and deep pool of talent that shines on our continent and beyond its shores.” said Dillon Khan, Vice President for Comedy Central and Creative Services for VIMN Africa.  
The locally produced Africa segment by Diprente, was directed by renowned comedian Kagiso Lediga, alongside Tamsin Andersson as the producer.  The writers of the content includes Kagiso Lediga, Karabo Lediga, Christopher Steenkamp, Muzi Dlamini, Mpheng Morobe, Camilo Saloojee, Lazola Gola, Simo Mngomeni. Additional production credits: DOP, Motheo Moeng; sound, Grant Baumann and Marc De Montbron is the editor. 
 * Catch The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, Tuesdays to Fridays on Comedy Central (DStv channel 122) at 21:30 CAT. Supplied Content