Despite this, local universities said operations were under control and expected to run smoothly as registration is set to start as early as January 15.  UCT spokesperson Nombuso Shabalala confirmed the university had received 68335 applications with more than 35000 undergraduate applicants.  “UCT will assess the registration situation on a day to day basis. As always, UCT’s first priority is the safety of people on campus,” she said.  Shabalala added that registration for undergraduates would take place from February 2-15 in preparation for the new academic year which is set start on February 19.  Stellenbosch University spokesperson Martin Viljoen said the university received nearly 32000 applications, of which 18000 were complete and could be considered for the 2018 intake. “Approximately, 10000 offers were made. The university has 5000 seats available for new first-year students, but has provisionally admitted about 10000 first years’ to allow for those matriculants who do not make admission after the results become available, or who choose to study at another institution and do not take up their places at SU,” he said.  Luthando Tyhalibongo, UWC spokesperson, said it has received more than 40000 applications for all levels of study, of which more than 26000 applications have been received for first-year. “The university looks forward to welcoming more than 4300 first-year students.  “The preparation work for selection, orientation and registration is going well. The university’s online registration for senior students has begun, and assisted/physical registration will commence on January 22.” CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said it had received 32073 first-year enrolments.  “Because we have three choices available in our applications it is important to bear in mind that the actual figure is three times the application amount, which is 96219 applications,” she said.  Kansley confirmed that registration is set to start on January 15.  As a result of the failed “walk-in” processes conducted by several universities in previous years, UCT and Stellenbosch have vowed to not allow such enrolments and said they would continue to have registrations completed online.  CPUT said that it would only allow walk-ins from students who had applied on time but had been put on a waiting list.  All universities advised matriculants who have not yet applied to a university to submit their details online to the Central Applications Clearing House of the Department of Higher Education and Training at www.cach.dhet.gov.za  @tamryn_christ Cape Argus