According to social media posts shared widely, a farmer reportedly assaulted a local 21-year-old security officer at his farm between Klapmuts and Paarl on December 24 last year. Police are still investigating the case. RELATED:Outrage over security guard chained to fence post on Cape farm According to EFF provincial leader Bernard Joseph, the man is Curtley Pieterse. “To restrain a human being by chaining him to a pole, beating him to pulp and leaving him for dead shows the utmost disdain white people have for others, while the only difference is their pigmentation,” he said. “This trend can only be stopped if black people in the Western Cape come to their senses as soon as possible,” he said. “It is mind-boggling why coloured people in the Western Cape entrusted their votes to murderous whites. For a month before an election they are being treated like royalty, being coerced to forget what treatment they received for four years and 11 months." Joseph said coloured politicians, mayors and councillors should bow their heads in shame.  “Take the T-shirts and food parcels, but make an informed decision at the only place this rot can be stopped, at the ballot box,” he said. RELATED: Police investigating alleged attempted murder on Cape farm In a separate incident, Agri SA has slammed the police for reporting inaccuracies to the media following the murder of a 32-year-old far worker who was killed on a farm in Tarlton, outside Krugersdorp, at the weekend. Agri SA president Dan Kriek said initial reports alleged a farmer had shot and killed a tractor driver who had stolen a tractor.  “Later reports confirmed, however, that a security officer had been responsible for the shooting of the farmworker. False reporting on the incident and poor journalism resulted in farmers’ reputation and public image being tarnished. The unnecessary dissemination of images relating to the incident had a negative effect on the dignity of the victim. This, and the false reporting, is unacceptable,” Kriek said. “Since the shooting of the farmworker on Saturday morning, the media has disseminated the information widely, also on social media, where reference was made to 'black people being killed by white farmers' and allegations that the incident was racially motivated. This type of information results in polarisation of communities and isn't conducive to nation-building,” he added.   @JasonFelix   jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus