SAPS spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Police responded to information they received about criminals operating during the night in the Bonteheuwel split area to steal Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) cables. Three men, aged 23, 31 and 37, were arrested in possession of a Prasa cable.” Rwexana said the suspects would appear in Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court on charges related to theft. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said the tip-offs proved that the attitude of the public was changing. “We are grateful that the public is beginning to expose criminals in their midst. “We received a report that another two suspects were arrested attempting to steal overhead cabling near Modderdam bridge. The suspects were nabbed by a mobile patrol during a special operation conducted by the regional Metrorail Protection Services unit and handed to Bishop Lavis SAPS,” Scott said. Another suspected cable thief was electrocuted in the section between Nyanga and Heideveld. It is believed the man, who is in his early thirties, attempted to steal 11kv overhead cable providing traction power to operate trains. Regional manager Richard Walker impressed upon the public the extreme danger of cutting electrical cable. “Railway current is not domestic electricity and it can be life-threatening to tamper with electrical rail components as this tragic death proved. Today, a family in all probability lost a father, son, brother and breadwinner needlessly.” President of the Cape Chamber of Com- merce and Industry Janine Myburgh said they would support a ban on all scrap copper exports. “We have seen the negative impact of copper theft. Cable theft has a ripple effect on the entire economy. Here in Cape Town it has led to train delays and suspension of the Central Line, which affects the entire economy. The bucket shops must be stopped. The second-hand illegal sale must be stopped,” Myburgh said. Walker said vandalism was rife in Bonteheuwel-Netreg-Nyanga and asked people to report crime, anonymity guaranteed. A reward of up to R25 000 was payable for information leading to a conviction.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus