Cape Town - Calling all mini cyclists! Entries are open for Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior. On Sunday, March 4, the Cape Town Stadium Precinct will throng with tots on trikes and tweens on bikes. The Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior fun ride is one of Cape Town’s favourite family events. David Bellairs, Marketing, Media and Sponsorship Director of the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust said: "This event is huge fun, with loads of entertainment for the kids, many of whom dress up for the occasion. Also read: #WaterCrisis: Cape Town Cycle Tour to reduce water footprint to zero "Set in the safe, controlled environment of the Cape Town Stadium Precinct, the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior has three distances to suit all ages, skill and fitness levels. It’s a great family day out, and an opportunity to show youngsters how much fun the challenge of healthy pursuits like cycling can be." There are three routes for six different age groups: 
* The 1.3km route is for tots up to the age of 6 and a parent must accompany them on foot. 
* Older kids between the ages of 6 and 12 can buzz around the 4km or 7km routes (parents may accompany their children on a bike). 
* For the 4km and 7km routes, riders must remember the most important rule: no helmet, no ride! Dress up as a pedalling princess or favourite character, a super hero or a super star and bedazzle your ride (parents/guardians/family are welcome to dress up and bedazzle their rides too!). Entries are only available online. Click here to enter and for more information. Number collection will take place at the Canal Walk Centre Court between March 1 and 3 from 9am to 9pm. "While the Cape Town Cycle Tour is for anyone aged 13 older," said Bellairs, "the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior event is for everyone younger than that. It’s not a race but a fun ride, and all our little participants get a medal. There’ll be magicians, lucky draws, and a host of activities. I never miss the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior - it is one of the happiest events for little ones in Cape Town." The first ride starts at 8am. Entries cost R150 for the 1.3km ride, and the 4km and 7km ride entries are R200. One accompanying asdult/co-pilot is included in the entry fee. Additional co-pilots cost R50 each.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus