Thousands of people gathered in the CBD on Tuesday as the Klopse took to the streets. The parade, also known as the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade, is one of the most festive and colourful days on the Cape Town calendar, but it comes at a huge cost. Mayco member for Safety, Security and Social Services JP Smith said that while it was one of the most important events for Cape Town, it did receive the most financial support from the City of any event in it's calendar.  “This year the City has given more support  - both money and resources - than any year in the past,” Smith said. “The City of Cape Town approved R6.1m in funding support to the minstrel events and Malay choirs this year.  An amount of R4.1m in cash was transferred to the associations, and R2m in support services was provided,” Smith said. He also revealed that city-owned venues were made available at no cost to the associations. Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA) received R2 million in cash funding for the “Tweede Nuwe Jaar”, and another R1,7 million in support services. The City also allocated R422 000 towards the competitions for KKKA, and provided the venue as support services. The Cape Malay Choir Board received R800 000 in cash funding for the March which took place on the 30 December 2017, and also got R300 000 in support services. For competitions the Cape Malay Choir Board received R224 000 from the City of Cape Town For competitions Cape District Minstrel Board received R200 000, SA Koorraad received R158 000, Keep the Dream received R200 000 and South African United Christmas Bands received R110 000. “All requests for funding were received through the City of Cape Town’s event support application system and were considered by the Special Events Committee (SpevCo) within their delegations or recommendations for support to Council,” Smith added. “The City took into account the Constitution, the Municipal Finance Management Act, the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, the City’s Credit Control and Debt Collection Policy, and other considerations when they reviewed the applications.” RELATED- PICS: Minstrels rule Cape Town's city streets Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA) also provided a breakdown of their financial costs associated with the event:  