This after the EFF called for potential students to walk in to universities to apply for places following President Jacob Zuma’s announcement of free university education.  USAf’s chief executive, professor Ahmed Bawa, said they didn't want a situation in which thousands of people arrived at universities on registration days.  “We have one scenario where thousands of prospective students pitch up and face the danger of stampedes, as they will be in long queues, and we could have a situation like the one we had at the University of Johannesburg in 2012.” Bawa was referring to a mother who was killed in a stampede while trying to get her daughter a place at the institution. At least 20 people were injured in that incident.  He said that between now and next week a clear message would be sent out explaining the process for prospective students who had not applied.  “We are desperate to get the message out to say that prospective students should use the path that has been laid out.” Bawa said Zuma's announcement didn’t meant there wasn't a fee system; it meant that the National Student Financial Aid Scheme would be distributing bursaries instead of loans, and to a larger community.  The Higher Education and Training Network said they did not support the “chaotic storming of university gates advocated by some political roleplayers”, but called on universities to extend their admission deadlines.  “All 26 universities need to extend their admission deadlines for the acceptance of more applications to cater for the students who are to benefit from the fee-free higher education plan.” EFF general secretary Mbuyiseni Ndlozi took to Twitter saying all academically qualifying students needed to be accommodated. “There must be plans in place to consider all applications allowing the poor to take advantage of free education,” he said. Today, Higher Education and Training Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize will give a briefing on this year’s registration process for the 26 institutions.   yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus