But this was the case for Kuils River couple Elverna and David Petersen, who sent their quadruplets to Grade 1 on Wednesday. The seven-year-olds, neatly dressed in their uniforms, turned heads as they arrived at their school, but mom of six  Elverna - the couple also have two older children - says they have become used to the stares from amazed onlookers. Madison is the only rose among the thorns, but she doesn’t stand back for brothers Evan, Jacques and Kayden. Dad David took Matthew, 14, for his first day of high school while Elverna had help getting Jayden, 11, and the quads to school. Adjustment The parents asked that the names of the schools not be published for security reasons. The wonder babies remained in hospital for three months after being born on 30 May 2011, with the smallest one, Jacques, weighing just 590 grams. It was a great adjustment for the parents, who suddenly had four more mouths to feed. It’s been an uphill battle financially, but the couple say they’ve been blessed by good friends, relatives and even strangers who help where they can. Elverna says the first day of school was a mission in itself. “We started preparing on Monday already. Getting six children to school, with the eldest starting high school is a mission, but David and I did pretty well. The kids are wonderful and realised it was a big day,” she says. The quadruplets have been placed in separate classes because they are protective of each other and also very competitive. “They were very excited to start their first day and went in all smiles. I left school OK, but later cried over my lunch, but I am happy and proud of all my children,” says Elverna. The family had a fundraiser in the form of a raffle which ran for three months. A draw was done on 1 December 2017, and four businesses sponsored the prizes. “With the money raised, we could purchase school shoes. It was R1 200 for the five pairs of school shoes. We got a good quality one so that it can last more than three months,” explains the mom. “The grandparents donated the sixth pair. Matthew’s stationery came to R1 000 and his high school uniform was R2 000. Some stationery, lunch boxes and the school bags were donated. Those are just some of the things. “Roughly we spent out of our own pocket about 
R8 000. This excludes school fees and after-care that must still be paid. It would have cost more if family, friends and strangers did not assist. This has been a journey of faith and pure grace.”  saafia.february@inl.co.za  Daily Voice