According to the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu), schools had come up with their own Day Zero plans as Premier Helen Zille was only planning to meet with schools this week to discuss solutions. “We’re deeply concerned by the fact that the premier is only addressing principals on the water crisis (tomorrow). We’re concerned about the health, safety and sanitation of pupils, especially of the poor children who can’t bring water to school. “They are expecting schools to develop their own respective water plans: how? We’re scared that education in the province may collapse,” said Sadtu provincial secretary Jonavon Rustin. Meanwhile, Pinelands High School has been repeating a water-saving mantra to pupils and parents for years, and they met up with other schools in the Pinelands and Thornton areas to discuss and share tips to be implemented at their respective schools. Pinelands High is in the process of closing taps and switching to a bucket system to flush toilets in an effort to save water. They are also encouraging pupils who are involved in sports to come to school in their sports gear, to avoid wearing two outfits and having to wash both. “We have been water saving for the last three years and save 70% of our water. We installed water tanks to harvest rain water and we have a water-wise garden. We replaced lawn with bark chips and hard surfaces to retain aesthetics. “We’re implementing the bucket system use for flushing toilets and we have hand sanitiser in bathrooms. We’re restricting taps in the bathroom and are encouraging students to bring bottled water from home,” said Pinelands High principal Dave Campbell. Bergvliet High has also adopted a water savvy approach and asked pupils to bring bottled water to school as well as five litres of water, according to a roster system. According to Education MEC Debbie Schafer’s spokesperson Jessica Shelver, the Day Zero plan for schools will only be available once the premier addresses schools this week. However, the department issued water saving guidelines to schools last year when level six water restrictions were introduced. “Many schools have implemented different savings measures. Some have encouraged learners to bring five litres of water to school as well as hand sanitiser, while some have closed swimming pools and turned taps off in the shower facilities. “We commend their proactive approaches. We have to pull together to meet this unprecedented crisis. “Schools with access to alternative sources of water must secure these resources. The circular reminds schools that they must have a water management plan, focusing mainly on saving water in ablution facilities,” said Shelver. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus