At a sometimes rowdy press briefing, surrounded by other DA bigwigs and attended by mostly DA members in Athlone, Maimane said DA government leaders report to him and he wanted to introduce the leaders that will take charge of the water crisis. RELATED: #WaterCrisis: Day Zero brought forward to April 12 Athlone resident Muaath Gabier was forcefully removed from the Joseph Stone Auditorium in Athlone after he shouted slurs and insults at Maimane. “This man (Maimane) is lying. He is taking us for a ride. We should not be giving him the time of day. He has no authority to speak on this water crisis. He does not know what he is talking about,” Gabier said. Bodyguards escorted Gabier outside the gates of the hall. “You can do what you want too, but where are you going to get water on Day Zero? From that man (Maimane) inside there? He talks like he is in a church, he must go back to his church. This is bullsh*t,” he said.   Even before Maimane’s briefing was set to take place, he came under heavy scrutiny from Cape politicians who say he is interfering with the governance affairs of the City of Cape Town. Maimane said it is no secret that Cape Town is facing an unprecedented situation and he has stepped in to help. But Ferlon Christians, ACDP MPL, said Maimane’s presentation had provided nothing new that is not already public knowledge. “No tangible, achievable deliverables were committed to, and no logistical details were provided on Day Zero relating to ensuring that all Capetonians receive their daily water rations. We believe this presentation amounted to an expensive public relations exercise for Maimane only,” Christians said. “Much time has been spent in the presentation on blaming national government for not delivering bulk water in the form of dams, yet the City owns 11 of Cape Town's 14 supply dams and national government has effectively built the last dam possible in Cape Town's rainfall catchment area because no further viable land is available. Clearly, the only finger-pointing the DA doesn’t want are the fingers pointing at their own failures in not heeding multiple warnings over the last two decades,” Christians said. Maimane said he is unhappy with the City’s communication on the drought crisis. “I am very aware that there is a lot of public unhappiness, concern and confusion as to how the DA-run City of Cape Town is responding to the situation. I understand what risk it poses for business, for communities, the fear and paralysis driven by a lack of information. These are extraordinary and unprecedented times,” Maimane said. Asked what is new about his #DefeatDayZero plan, Maimane could not provide new details. He said: “There has been misinformation and everyone needs to be aware of the plan. These leaders of government report to me in the DA’s federal executive and that is why I am here. “I am also here to introduce to you a team that will be tackling the crisis to avoid Day Zero.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus