To exemplify: HIV and Aids, alcoholism and substance abuse are huge problems. Yet the solution is small. AA. Alcoholics Anonymous. Or Absolute Abstinence. It will work for the three malaises I have mentioned. It just takes resolve and a conscious effort to realise that every action has a consequence. I admire the folk who go through the dirt-bins on collection day. They perform a service. They take out cardboard, plastics and even glass. This they cart off, often in rickety “waentjies” or purloined supermarket trolleys and turn it into recyclable material. In that way they put food on the table in a climate of unemployment. Then there are the other resourceful ones who buy a weed-eater and perform lawn manicures. They also offer to clean your yard of extraneous material. These are the people who choose to find a solution to what seems an insurmountable problem. We need a change in our mindset to accept them as worthy citizens who choose to do something instead of waiting for hand-outs. Or resorting to crime. Or becoming politicians who are useless yet live off the fat of the land. In much the same way, other issues can be tackled if we sit down and think about them. My column promotes literacy, so I will address the massive ignominy of being stone-last in the international literacy stakes. For openers, we must redefine literacy. Literacy was seen as a part of the curricular unit called reading. It is my conviction that reading is a subset of Literacy. For me, literacy is the ability to absorb sensory input in a way that enables one to navigate one’s environment safely and with maximum effect. An example could be navigating a route using road-signage. We don’t have to be able to read to recognise an outline of an aeroplane, a bed, a red cross, a cup and saucer. Even the white and yellow arrows on the road surface, the solid and unbroken lines, the visual of the traffic light are all indicators or signifiers that do not 
depend on the traditional notion of 
“reading”. And even if one was colour-blind, one would know that the uppermost light is the red one which says: Stop! These exercises are precursors to reading skills. We learn the importance of colour, shape, dimensions and even auditory discrimination. Parents are involved in pointing out useful signs and explaining them. In a word, my plea for improved cognitive performance at all levels is based on holistic buy-in. We are all involved. It takes a village to rear a child. actabisher@gmail.com * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus