Cape Town residents had up until Monday to make submissions on the proposed water levy.  ANC leader in the council Xolani Sotashe said: “The people of Cape Town cannot be punished for the recklessness of the DA administration. The DA knew 10 years ago that we will have a water crisis now. “There were suggestions on what needs to be done, including the augmentation schemes and also draw water coming from Table Mountain to be directed to be used.  “The DA decided to ignore all those suggestions that were made back then.” The proposed water levy will see residential properties valued from R400 000 and commercial properties valued from R50 000 pay more for water. A home valued at R600 000 would pay a monthly drought charge of R35, while a home valued at R50 million would pay R2 800. Commercial properties valued at R500 000 would pay R60 a month, while one valued at R500m would have to pay R56 000 monthly. Opposition parties have however accused Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille of failing to prioritise the water crisis. “They can’t blame national government for this because national government has been coming to the fore to help them in terms of support.  “They gave the City financial resources to support them. The Minister of Water and Sanitation came and signed an agreement on what needs to happen.” The City of Cape Town has received a total of R20m, as contribution to the Table Mountain Aquifer Project. The City’s spokesperson, Zara Nicholson, said to fund the capital costs of the first phase of the water resilience programme, the City has developed a funding strategy, which was approved by council last year.  She said the funding strategy includes concessionary loan funding and an application for grant funding from the Green Climate Fund.  Council has also agreed to the implementation of a possible drought charge subject to the authority of the finance minister. Final consideration will be when tabling the 2017/18 financial year’s adjustments budget at the end of this month. The EFF have called for the nationalisation of all water resources in the province and abolishing of corporate water control. Provincial chairperson Bernard Joseph said: “We contend that this crisis is not political and should not be used in this way.  “For the sake of our people we need to rise above party politics and take hands towards a successful resolution of this crisis.  “The above suggestions are minuscule in comparison to the wealth of information held by ordinary citizens. Let us use our most precious resource, our people, to save our people.”  Cape Argus