Activist groups are fighting the proposed Critical Infrastructure Protection Bill, saying it is unconstitutional and will infringe the right to protest. The bill, which was brought forward for public participation after it was tabled in the National Assembly, is set to repeal the apartheid National Key Points Act of 1980. It aims to have identification and declaration of what is a critical infrastructure as well as to provide for measures to be put in place for the protection, safeguarding and resilience of critical infrastructure. Included in this bill is a proposed jail time of up to 30 years for people caught protesting at a national key point. The portfolio committee on police heard presentations from organisation and institutions for input on the proposed bill. Chairperson of the committee Francois Beukman said there were about 15 presentations that would be heard on the bill. Social Justice Coalition (SJC) are expected to do their presentations today. SJC secretary Axolile Notywala said the bill was unconstitutional. “It criminalises protests, we do not support it at all,” he said. Last week, the SJC made a breakthrough when the Western Cape High Court made a ruling by finding the Regulations Gathering Act unconstitutional. Notywala said: “We do recognise the importance of protecting critical infrastructure in the country, but the way the bill is structured is way too broad. There is no clear distinction of what falls under critical infrastructure. “Criminalising people for up to 30 years is unconstitutional, especially because people protest against injustices and dissatisfaction with the government.” Greenpeace Africa made their presentation yesterday. Happy Khambule, senior political adviser at Greenpeace Africa, said: “The bill represents a shift away from the core principles on which the South African constitution is based towards the restriction and repression of dissent, ostensibly in the interest of national security.” He said for a country which has a rich history of protests and the role protests played in reaching a democracy, the bill was unjustifiable. “We believe in the right to peaceful protest and are vehemently opposed to the enactment of such sweeping security legislation, particularly in the absence of credible evidence of the existence of serious threats which cannot be adequately addressed by existing legislation. The bill should be abandoned completely, or must be amended to align with the constitution,” said Khambule. Beukman said he was pleased with the amount of responses they were receiving. “It is important that we adopt a bill that is in line with the constitution,” he said.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus