We spoke to JP Smith, mayco member for safety, security and social services, on the preparations for Day Zero. 1. What is the first thing Capetonians need to do when Day Zero is announced? No answer. 2. There are families with more than five members living in one house. They would have to apply for exemption. Can this process please be explained? No answer. 3. How will the City ensure that people don't steal water or get more than their allocation? The collection of water will only be regulated in order to prevent any one person from collecting far above their daily water allocation. In order to keep the water distribution sites operating as efficiently as possible, only light regulation will be put in place to monitor how much water each person is collecting. 4. Please explain how back yarders and those renting the properties will be affected in respect of collecting water? No one will be turned away from the water collection points. All persons living in Cape Town will be entitled to collect water at these points. 5. The water crisis will affect the elderly adversely. What sort of assistance will they and other vulnerable groups be given in respect of transportation of water to their homes? The water distribution points are one of the means through which water will be distributed to the public and is just one layer of the strategy. For example, the City is engaging with major food retailers to assess whether they can act as additional water distribution points to increase the number of sites where people can collect water easily. The City is also planning to use water tankers to deliver water to key institutions such as old age homes and homeless shelters. 6. How much water will minors receive and may an adult  collect it on their behalf? No answer. 7. When will the City release the water collection points? The City has done an enormous amount of work to look at all of the requirements for a disaster of this scale should it occur. The assessment of the proposed sites, as one of the means of water distribution, has been finalised and further details will be made available in due course. 8. Will there be security at collection points? The deployment of security policing role players will depend on the risk profile of the relevant water collection points. The services included in the deployment will be SAPS, Metro police, traffic and law enforcement. SAPS and SANDF have confirmed they will assist the City with securing these water collection points. 9. Will water collection points be open 24 hours? No answer. 10. At collection points, will the water come from a tap, water tank or any other source? No answer. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus