Community members attacked the man and protested on Monday in the area. Her 56-year-old grandmother, who was also a victim of rape, said the man is a pensioner who lives nearby.  “This has opened up old wounds for me. As a rape survivor, the behaviour of my granddaughter made me suspicious, I would ask her to trust me and say if someone did something she didn’t like.  “She would assure me that nothing was wrong.”  She said the 9-year-old once ran away for a short while but she was too afraid to tell anyone why she ran away. “I even went to her school to ask if something was happening there that could account for the change in her behaviour, but no one could tell me what was wrong with her.  “The man threatened her not to tell anyone. What makes me really angry is that the suspect was popular with children in the neighbourhood. My granddaughter tells me the man would bribe them with bread, so they could spend time at his house.”  The grandmother said that on Thursday the child finally opened up and she immediately went to the police. “I cried when she said the man had been assaulting her for two years. “We sent her to hospital and it was positively confirmed that she was molested. “We haven’t received counselling and this is killing her mother.”  She said she felt like the system had let both her and her granddaughter down.  And despite her having reported it, no one had come to start an investigation.  But on Friday chaos erupted as the community found out the man had not been arrested and he was beaten to within an inch of his life. Police and ambulance were pelted with stones, as they tried to rescue him from the crowd, the grandmother said. “I don’t support mob justice, but if police don’t act quickly communities will take matters into their own hands. “I was told the man was taken to Lentegeur Hospital and was checked out by his son. He is now in an undisclosed private hospital.” Mitchells Plain Impact Association (MPIA) chairperson Joanie Fredericks said she was heartbroken to know the child had been enduring such pain for years. “I am angry and sick to my stomach. The man is old enough to be the child’s grandfather. Just when I was actually commenting on how the raping of our children seems to have stopped, I hear this now. “Once again the perpetrator is known to the victim and family, a trusted father figure. I plead with you, community, let us give justice a chance, we saw that it can work for us when we look at the triple life sentences of Randy Tango.” Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said a case of sexual assault was opened at Mitchells Plain for investigation.  @okuhle_hlati   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus