In 2011, single mom Michelle Saffer applied for an exemption at Fish Hoek High School for her daughter, but was refused after the school requested financial statements from her ex-husband which she could not provide. She took the decision to the Western Cape High Court which upheld the school’s decision. She appealed the judgment at the SCA, which ruled in her favour. The SCA made a ruling which would ensure that fee exemption applications were processed in relation to the circumstances of single parents and not on a combined income. The decision will bring relief to thousands of single parents with children in public schools who could not gain exemptions due to the Western Cape High Court’s judgment, which held parents jointly liable for fees. The Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) welcomed the decision taken by the SCA, saying that the judgement from the Western Cape High Court placed a burden on single parents especially in cases where partners did not contribute, making it difficult for single parents to afford paying fees. “The effort of Michelle Saffer is not only commendable in challenging the Western Cape High Court judgement, it’s welcoming news to those in the same predicament. Women are in majority in bearing the brunt of having difficulty in paying school fees due to their socio-economic conditions. “The CGE believes this will go a long way to alleviate the plight in particularly of women who are at most at the receiving end of this lack of support from separated or divorced partners,” said CGE spokesperson, Javu Baloyi. The Equal Education Law Centre (EELC) also welcomed the SCA  judgment and said that it is a progressive step towards recognising the difficulties faced by single parents who find themselves in similar positions as Ms Saffer. “The school required the fee exemption form to be completed by both Ms Saffer and her ex-husband. Ms Saffer had custody over her child and a difficult history with her former spouse. Because of this, she regarded it as unreasonable, humiliating and discriminatory. “Ms Saffer’s fee exemption applications were ultimately rejected. A vast number of parents find themselves in the same or similar position as Ms Saffer,” said the EELC in a statement. Baloyi said that the CGE will monitor the implementation of the SCA decision by the Department of Basic Education, and has requested that the Provincial Departments of Education, District Officials and School Principals to ensure that the judgement is implemented. Western Cape Education Department (WCED), spokesperson Paddy Attwell said the WCED accepts the judgement made by the SCA, as it would simplify processing of applications by single parents in cases where the other parent refuses to provide details on their income. Fish Hoek High School principal, Gavin Fish, responded to the judgement saying that any measure that relieved the burden on single parents is welcome, however, he shared concern about the schools ability to recoup school fees. Fish also said that the judgement could end up with one partner being absolved from the responsibility of paying. “160 families are subsidised to attend Fish Hoek High School and they’re dependent on those in a position to pay. In the past we succeeded in better holding to account both partners who have not adhered to maintenance agreements.” “If you’re in a position to pay and you don’t pay, that is unacceptable. It would jeopardise the level of education we are able to offer people of all races and classes. We have a ‘no one stays behind’ policy. If you can’t afford it we will assist you,” said Fish. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus