She addressed journalists on Tuesday on the City’s newest plans to avert the current drought. The mayor said it has to charge households a drought charge (on top of current municipal rates) to cover the R1.6bn a year that’s needed to pay for drought interventions and maintenance. She also announced that Day Zero has been moved from April 29 to April 22. RELATED: BREAKING: DA's Cape Town Metro executive recommends #DeLille's removal “We have received about 45000 comments on the proposal. We place the various comments in categories. We have seen many in favour of the drought charge  “There are also those who complain, but then they say it is much better than queuing for water,” De Lille added. “We need to raise money to pay for these projects and, more importantly, to maintain our water reticulation system,” she said. The period to comment has also been extended to January 15 to allow more consumers to have their say. “We are proposing to fund these initial projects and our water services. It is really vital in our efforts to beat the drought and to afford protection to our most vulnerable residents.  "Bulk water is the responsibility of the national government, and although we have worked very well with the national government, we cannot just sit back and wait on them. Playing the blame game will also not get us anywhere.”  Only 464216 households out of a total of 707814 would be affected by the charge. De Lille said 52510 people would pay more than R150 a  month while the majority would pay less than R47 a month. Philip Bam, chairperson of the Greater Cape Town Civic Alliance (GCTCA), said: “It is with absolute dismay the GCTCA notes the announcement that the City of Cape Town will be charging  property owners a drought charge to fund income shortfall as a result of water saving.  “The GCTCA  has for many years officially objected to the deeply flawed property valuation methodology. To now use this same flawed valuation to calculate yet another tax is farcical.” RELATED: #DeLille warns 'hasty' DA Cape Metro executive Apart from a larger investment into aquifers, the City’s desalination plants at Strandfontein and Monwabisi were scheduled to be completed in February, while the V&A Waterfront site would be completed in March. The City, however, planned to invest extensively into aquifers that could collectively deliver 150million litres of water per day.   But De Lille said water consumption, currently 578million litres a day, remained too high.  “The preliminary findings show that the Cape Flats aquifer can deliver 80million litres per day; the Table Mountain aquifer 40million litres and the Atlantis aquifer 3million litres per day,” she said. Atlantis and the Philippi Horticultural area have been identified as prime locations. “Importantly, this action to help Cape Town get through the drought is based on an environmentally sensitive approach that will ensure sustainable water abstraction, ensuring that generations of Capetonians will benefit from this groundwater,” De Lille said. Peter Flower, the City’s director for water and sanitation, said the aquifers would be “replenished” with treated wastewater. Xanthea Limberg, mayco member for water and energy, appealed to residents to adhere to restrictions as many consumers would be returning to work.  @JasonFelix   jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus