Speaking to hospital and other facility CEOs at the Western Cape Government offices, Zille provided a progress update on measures currently in place and planned interventions going forward. “An agreement has been reached with the City of Cape Town - for facilities located in the metro - that water will not be shut off at hospitals and health facilities should we reach Day Zero. “Despite this, the province has plans to guarantee alternative water for hospitals in the extremely unlikely event that taps have to be turned off at these facilities as well,” Zille said. She said the provincial Health Department had been working with facilities across the province to bring down their water usage through various innovations, such as surgical scrubs, the use of alcohol hand sanitisers and using bottled water for drinking. “Engineering interventions have also been useful in bringing usage down. This includes fixing of leaking infrastructure, installation of waterless urinals and the re-use of treated water. Good maintenance has led to notable decreases in water consumption at some facilities. “In the last seven years, Groote Schuur Hospital has reduced its water consumption by 50%,” Zille said. Groote Schuur Hospital is re-cycling water, resulting in a saving of 5 million litres of water a year, Zille said. Groundwater will be used to augment the supply at large facilities. Some facilities already have boreholes, which are being reinstated. “In other cases, new boreholes are being sunk. Currently, sufficient ground water has been secured at 31 facilities, with a collective total of 70 boreholes having been drilled as on January 21. “Once drilling is complete, yields are confirmed and water quality is tested. Of the 70 boreholes drilled to date, 56 (existing or new) have already been pump-tested to verify yields, sustainable pump rates and to determine recovery rates,” Zille said. She said should we reach Day Zero, facilities were being equipped to ensure that they remained fully operational and available to the public. “This means other water sources are being planned for such a scenario,” she said. Eighteen facilities have been identified as being of the highest priority, given the nature of services they provide and their location. These are Tygerberg Hospital, Groote Schuur Hospital and Red Cross Children’s Hospital. A further nine are of top priority in the metro region, among them: Lentegeur, New Somerset, Mowbray, Mitchells Plain, Karl Bremmer and Stikland. “An additional nine facilities are also in the high priority category in the rural parts of the province. Of the 18 high priority facilities, 16 have been secured - this means sufficient ground water has been found for these premises. Plans are in place to ensure that the water is tested and reticulated into the hospital systems,” she said. Zille said solutions were being devised at the Groote Schuur and Caledon Hospitals.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus