Opposition parties have also warned the DA bosses not to get involved in City Council matters after they formally charged De Lille and recommended she be stripped of some of her powers. Xolani Sotashe, ANC leader in the City Council, said the DA was in a catch-22 situation. “It appears to me corruption in the City of Cape town has embarrassed them. In their own admission the Bowman Gilfillan report does bring to the fore a prima facie case. The question is why the DA is politicising corruption. “De Lille does not lead the City of Cape town alone. They are admitting that she was covering up for corruption. One would expect, though, that the whole leadership deployed by the DA must account to the party. "Factional battles within the DA overshadowed the real issue of corruption within the administration. They want to make sure they deal with De Lille’s integrity and manage the backlash from her constituency and move ruthlessly to implement neo-liberal policies. Where have you ever seen a mayor without powers? This is the DA for you,” Sotashe said. ACDP councillor Grant Haskin reiterated that they would not be supporting any motion to remove De Lille as mayor until the City processes were complete. “A special council meeting has already been called for January 19 to consider precautionary suspensions of senior managers of the City. We also fully support a full review of delegations to members of the mayoral committee and other political bodies of the Cape Town Council,” he said. Grant Twigg, DA metro leader, said they had accepted the directives from the party’s federal executive. The DA recommended that Xanthea Limberg, mayoral committee member for water and sanitation, and deputy mayor Ian Neilson take the lead role in the water crisis. “We fully accept this and will move on with the work we have to do in the City of Cape Town. The other processes are being dealt with by the City of Cape Town,” he said. Twigg also said no councillor would vote against De Lille in a no-confidence motion. Al Jama-Ah leader Ganief Hendricks slammed the DA for using City of Cape Town funds to pay for an investigation leading to the charges. “We are also glad that the ANC and other opposition parties are not going to do the dirty work of the DA to press for the mayor’s dismissal, which has now forced the DA to take a new direction,” he said. Tony Ehrenreich, Western Cape Cosatu secretary, said the DA used people from poor communities to hide their “baasskap” agenda. “When the DA has used you up, then they kick you out of the party leadership, as has been the case with many ‘clever blacks’. Insiders in the DA have revealed to the Cosatu that the plan is to remove De Lille by the end of February,” he said.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus