The launch will see the celebrities sign a pledge where they will promise to be responsible water users. They also need to use their public standing and influence to urge others to follow in their footsteps in saving water. Idols winner Paxton Fielies said she knows all too well about the drought and the seriousness of people saving water. “It’s a problem Cape Town is facing that needs to be taken serious. Many people are not informed properly, and I feel like I have the platform to help EveryDropCounts to be heard.” She said it was a sad thing to see the city going through, as it is a top tourist destination. “It’s bad we are one of the biggest tourist attractions in the world, but will be without water and it is really frightening.” Fielies said she will be focusing on the youth as an ambassador for the campaign. “I will try to be an ambassador to the youth to encourage them to save water like doing simple things such as closing the tap when brushing their teeth, catching their bath water and using it in the garden and so on. They are oblivious to the fact that day zero is a reality. It was the 21st of April, it is now the 12th of April. “Water is our human right and we are devastated. We won’t be able to open taps and have water running through them. Save water by showering and using a bucket to catch water, and use washing machine water for the garden and toilets.” Artscape CEO Marlene le Roux will also be on board and said most it was vitally important to save water now. “Many of us are unaware of the sheer volumes of water we are using. The best technology in the world can’t achieve its full potential if people don’t understand how to get the best from it. “People are thus the key to successful sustainability initiatives. Educated consumers will be better able to identify problems and think innovatively about ways to conserve or reuse water. "Changing water use practices requires educating the end users of water. It is important to educate users about water scarcity issues and the impact of water conservation practices through signage and awareness campaigns at the point of use. Not only will the company benefit, but these tools can be taken back to the home, where individuals and families can use these practices to play an even larger role in the preservation of rapidly dwindling freshwater resources.” She said Artscape has adopted a proactive approach to water management, by being more aware of water consumption, and actively identifying water saving opportunities. Emo Adams, Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and his wife Leah Tutu and Raymond Ackerman are some of the public figures supporting the campaign. “Water is life,” Ackerman said. “It is a vital resource that needs to be protected by all of us. I’m so proud of the efforts Capetonians have made to save water! Please carry on doing the right thing.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus