This warning came after a hiker was stabbed to death on the Echo Valley hiking trail above Kalk Bay at the weekend. The attack brought to two the number of stabbings in that area within one month. “Every park has a safety and security plan. Rangers do patrols and we work with local security companies and we do everything in our power to engage security clusters and monitor the parks. We advise hikers to be aware of the dangers. We don’t advise hikers to hike or run on their own,” SANParks head of corporate communications Janine Raftopoulos said yesterday. She was approached in connection with Sunday’s attack during which a 56-year-old hiker was stabbed to death while hiking with his wife. The hiker’s identity has not been disclosed. Raftopoulos said the park has beefed up safety and security in the past two weeks, but the area was difficult to patrol because access to the park was easy. According to Raftopoulos the attacker wore an olive shirt and khaki pants and had fled without taking anything from his victim. Police spokesperson  Andrè Traut said a murder probe has been launched. Wilderness Search-and-Rescue spokesperson Johan Marais said a helicopter was used to fly out the fatally wounded hiker with wife at his side. Community Safety MEC Dan Plato expressed concern about recent  attacks on the mountain. He urged all law enforcement entities to work together with mountain interest groups to help ensure the culprits were apprehended. “I am confident we can find solutions to help increase safety better together and will be requesting feedback from the Table Mountain Safety Forum where the Department of Community Safety is also represented. I urge mountain users to always be well prepared for even the shortest hikes with correct gear and refreshments and make the most informed decisions when planning to use the park,” said Plato. Freedom Front Plus provincial leader  Corné Mulder conveyed his condolences to the hiker’s family and said that it was only a matter of time before the next attack happened as seemingly no additional safety measures were being implemented to protect people after attacks on hikers. “It is absolutely unacceptable. The fact that no action was taken has contributed to a hiker being murdered. If the hiking trails above Muizenberg and Kalk Bay, where nine hikers were attacked with knives just a few weeks ago, were being properly patrolled, this would probably not have happened,” he said “Compare this to Cape Town’s extremely effective system comprising parking attendants and other traffic law enforcers that issue fines even after midnight. The same ardent approach needs to be followed to ensure hikers and other people’s safety. It is not acceptable to simply point fingers and shift the blame,” said Mulder. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus