Environmental expert Meaghen McCord says this is evident in our oceans. She is the research director at the SA Shark Conservancy, which has been running a campaign against plastic pollution in the ocean for the last five-and-a-half years. According to McCord’s observations, plastic waste has increased over the years. “I’ve been part of a study that looks at the diet of blue sharks and we found that they ingest a lot of plastic. We also see a lot of entangled animals in the Cape Wilderness area. The problem is that there is plastic everywhere and there is a lack of education in poor socio-economic communities. “People don’t make the connection between what they’re throwing on land and what they’re eating. There is a growing body of evidence because plastic never goes away. It’s ingested by some animals, big plastics become smaller and accumulate toxins and humans eat those animals, beginning a process of poisoning themselves,” said McCord. Douw Steyn, director of sustainability at Plastics SA,  agreed that an increase in plastic usage was evident, as the company produces about 1.5million tons of plastics per year, of which 53% goes to packing. Steyn said that when the 2004 plastic bag regulation came into play, the plastic usage went down a bit but it went up again in the last few years, due to the low cost of bags at retailers which didn’t encourage people to bring a bag with them. “It’s convenient and people forget to take a bag with them to the shop. As the population grows, our consumption grows and products increase, especially plastic packaging. “With regards to straws usage being cut down, it will have a small impact on the industry; 41.8% of plastics are recovered for recycling while the rest goes to the landfill and a small amount goes into the environment as waste. “There is currently a big outcry on single-use plastics such as straws, bottles, bags, ear buds and plastic cutlery. It is misused and abused by problematic people. Who’s to blame, the plastic industry or the local guy?” asked Steyn. Plastix 911 plastics consultant Annabé Pretorius, who looks at recyclability and what gets recycled by people, said straws and plastic bags weren’t getting recycled and bags were still one of the top 10 littered items. “The impact of littered bags from September 2017 to now is 5% more. This is due to population growth and many more shops.” Pretorius said if there were containers for litter on the beaches, it would make a 
difference.  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus