The cast for an upcoming film about the late Brenda Fassie, pictured, will be entirely South African. 
This was announced on Wednesday, January 10, by London-based film and television production company Showbizbee, which will be bringing the film to life. It is titled Brenda: The True Story, and the production team will partner with the Brenda Fassie Estate and Legaci Nova to see the movie through. “Casting will be facilitated by a national open casting process. Showbizbee will be announcing shortly how to apply. “The main role will be open for auditions across South Africa. This initiative will give the opportunity for any female across the country to apply for this challenging and honourable role for the movie,” said the company representatives in a statement. Loyiso Madinga makes his debut on 'The Daily show with Trevor Noah' Showbizbee said they acquired rights to film the story that will be written and directed by Edward W Shaw with a script based on a story by Fassie’s son, Bongani. The movie will be a comedy-drama that follows a young Brenda Fassie who is determined to become a singer. It traces her journey from Langa, Cape Town, to Soweto right up until her rise to stardom as an iconic musician. “British director and producer Edward W Shaw is fond of Ms Fassie’s music. He is attracted to her courageous mindset and her love of life," said Showbizbee’s Pamela Naidoo. "Mr Shaw will bring the real story of Brenda to the silver screen, working very closely with Mr Bongani Fassie. "Brenda will be an epic roller-coaster movie which will surprise the audience,” said Naidoo. Bongani said he was excited to be part of the process. “I am particularly eager to participate in the production, as co-executive producer, so that the real story of my mom comes alive to the people of South Africa and the world." Legaci Nova, the entertainment group behind some of the best-selling artists in the country, said they were ecstatic that "the iconic brand of Brenda Fassie" was being celebrated. “Her life was the epitome of a superstar who had worked her entire life creating music to be enjoyed forever. “This movie is a huge step in the right direction for the African arts industry. We are highly enthused to have partnered with Edward W Shaw and team.” Showbizbee was previously involved in the SA production of Ubuntu, a drama feature about politicians Roelf Meyer and Cyril Ramaphosa during the Codesa process. * The movie will be filmed on location in Cape Town and Joburg. Production will begin in February and the movie is set for release later in the year.   The Star 