This is according to Alan Winde, Western Cape MEC for Economic Opportunities, who also said hotels have seen an increase in bookings despite the drought and its water restrictions.  He also said many visitors have  heeded the call for reduced water usage. “The bookings for the sector looks really good, but we (are) still busy collating the final figure before it is released. Hotels and other players in the industry have been doing their part.  “Almost all have fitted their establishments with water-saving shower heads. Others have recycled their water and have been using grey water for purposes other than human consumption. Guesthouses have also played their part in  keeping their water consumption to less than 87 litres per day per person.”  He said it is clear that tourists understand the situation. “In many cities around the world there are some sort of water restrictions. It is clear that people are heeding the government’s call with improved signage and notices up at hotels, guesthouses and other establishments.” According to the World Bank, the demand for water grows by the day and currently a 50% increase in urban water demands is anticipated within the next 30 years. Cape Town’s foremost hotels have also started implementing water-saving measures. The Taj Hotel has switched off their jacuzzi facilities and all steam rooms in their spas. “Cape Town is in the midst of a very severe drought. At the Taj we are doing everything possible to conserve water at this time,” a notice to guests read. Priya Naidoo, general manager for communications at Tsogo Sun said: “Tsogo Sun is committed to saving water at its properties in Cape Town, which is currently experiencing a severe drought.  “Hotels in the group have introduced several measures to save water. These include installing aerators and flow restrictors on taps, as well as low-pressure heads on showers. The frequency of replacing linen and towels has also been reduced. Guests and staff are made aware of the water-saving measures introduced at the hotels through various initiatives.  “Staff members are also constantly monitoring water usage against certain targets through newly-installed dashboards.” Jeff Rosenberg, chairperson of Fedhasa who represents the hospitality industry, said hotels and other establishments will do its bit to save water. To strengthen awareness campaigns, Rosenberg said hotels are advised to “start in the lobby”.  He suggested “in your face tactics” to communicate to guests, including 
international visitors, the extent of the crisis and urged hotels to continue implementing existing initiatives and enforcing new ones.    jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus