CAPE TOWN - The Congress of Democratic Association (Codeta) says managing scores of passengers, due to inoperative Metrorail's Central line has no profitable effects to the taxi business as many people would think. The general-secretary of Codeta, Andile Khanyi told Business Report that the Metrorail issue is immensely affecting their business, as taxis experience delays on increased traffic because all taxis are on the road at the same time especially at peak times. Khanyi added, "We feeling the pressure as we have to maintain our service delivery and retain trust to our passengers during the chaotic time". Passenger volumes are expected to increase in the region as schools re-open on Wednesday, 17 January. ALSO READ: Black Business Chamber welcomes Prasa's new interim boss Services in the Central line were officially suspended after a security guard was robbed and shot dead at Chris Hani station in Khayelitsha last week. When asked on how this has affected the companies ticket sales, Riana Scott, the Metrorail spokesperson said it is still early to tell. They will be in a good position to comment on sales figures at the end of January. Metrorail monthly and weekly ticket holders were advised to utilise Golden Arrow buses during the off-peak times (between 08:30 and 15:00 and from 18:00 onward). ALSO READ: SATAWU kicks off salary negotiations at Transnet The acting CEO of Prasa Rail,Mthuthuzeli Swartz, announced early on Tuesday that talks between Prasa Rail and the United National Transport Union (Untu) relating to the Central line issue are at an advanced stage. Cosatu has called on Metrorail management to engage drivers who are willing to drive and the South African Transport and Allied Workers Union so that the service resumes as soon as possible. "Cosatu shares the demands of Untu whose strike has led to the closure of the Central lines, and believe it is there right to decide on the action of their union, within the parameters of the Labour Relations Act," Cosatu's statement read. This federation has confirmed that its members working at Metrorail - who are also members of Satawu, will however now drive the trains on the Central line, as it believes that different steps should be taken to solve the crisis. Cosatu has also extended its condolences to all staff and commuters who have suffered injuries and death due to criminal activities. Top story: Jacob Zuma's list of demands if he steps down - Report - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE