Cape Town - Recent attacks on tourists could negatively affect the tourism industry if Cape Town doesn't respond with solutions that will encourage safety, according to Cape Town Tourism CEO, Enver Duminy. “The reach of social media can change minds of the loved ones of those who have been attacked, because people read these articles and reconsider coming to Cape Town. There will definitely be fall out because of this. “These incidents are not unique to Cape Town as it happens all over but if we respond quickly with solutions and expose the good that we do, it will help,” said Duminy. A spike in attacks on tourists recently has led to extra security measures being put in place by both SANParks and the City of Cape Town. Also read: UK hiker speaks out about horror Cape mountain knife attack SANParks spokesperson Merle Collins said there had been an increase in security measures, leading to the arrest of two suspects alleged to be responsible for muggings in the greater Table Mountain National Park. Collins said that additional resources are being deployed on the mountain side above Kalk Bay where UK tourists were among a group of nine people viciously attacked with knives. These resources includes operations with SAPS, increase of patrols in the area, the deployment of the Table Mountain National Park (TMNP) dog unit and surveillance monitoring. The DA's tourism spokesperson James Vos said the incidents have the capacity to do “brand damage” to the city, but believed the tourism industry would not suffer, as much had been done to promote Cape Town as a safe destination. “We have seen a double digit increase in international and domestic arrivals over the festive period.There was an increase in police and law enforcement at tourist destinations and close circuit cameras were in these areas to deal with criminality before it happens. “These were isolated incidents we must deal with. We can’t be at all places at all times. A destination gets its name in how they respond to incidents and provide assistance to victims and we rank among the world’s best tourism destination. To get that ranking we have to make sure the city is safe,” said Vos. The City of Cape Town's safety chief JP Smith said the City would assist TMNP and had already reached out to the provincial government to convene an urgent meeting to draw up a plan of action.  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus