Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) spokesperson Sipho Sithole said they would be increasing the number of railway police on trains. There are currently 4000 railway police officers in the country. Sithole said: “Previously there were 15000 railway police officers in South Africa. “The country is under siege. If you look at the rate of vandalism to infrastructure, I don’t think we can deal with it alone. People’s lives are in danger. We are transporting thousands of commuters. Trains get derailed when criminals damage infrastructure. I don’t think we can deal with it alone. There is no respect for the law. The gangs carry guns. And it is organised crime stealing and vandalising infrastructure. They are syndicates. They are stealing copper cables and selling it.” Prasa acting chief executive Cromet Molepo said on Thursday they would be finalising a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the police, meaning staff and commuters would enjoy protection. He was giving feedback outside the Bonteheuwel electricity substation after several meetings with relevant stakeholders. “The role of Prasa is to provide running, safe railway services, but at the moment we are spending a lot on security services, which is not Prasa’s mandate.The MoU will allow us to continue with our business. We want to know what the private security have been doing, and action will be taken,” Molepo said. He also called for community intervention to deal with vandalism and cable theft. This comes after a test train, sent onto the Central line to assess the stability of the infrastructure, derailed, forcing Metrorail to postpone the resumption of the Central line service. “We can’t sit and wait while commuters and the economy suffer against organised crimes. A reinforced wall that stretches for some 15km is also in the pipeline to up security. Criminals are now more brazen in their theft of valuable infrastructure, inside the substation there is not a single cable. Only graveyards remain of cables. The days of these hooligans is numbered.” National railway police head Michael Mohlala said they were ready to help Prasa win the war. He said the money Prasa was paying the private security must be channelled to the police to ensure more cops we deployed and necessary equipment was available. United National Transport Union general secretary Steve Harris said it was a pity they had lost five employees before being eventually heard. “We have been fighting this for the past two years and we have been trying to alert the public on what has been going on. We cannot deliver a service if people’s lives are in danger. We will participate under the agreement we have and welcome this opportunity. We will continue to ensure trains run and must emphasise that it is going to take time. We ask for the patience of communities,” Harris said.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus