Police spokesperson Sinathi Joni said an unidentified body was discovered during the clearing of the aftermath of a fire that ripped through Joe Slovo, Zone 31 in Langa on Monday night. An inquest case has been opened and the circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated. An emotional Fundiswa Zekani, Clock’s cousin, said neighbours of the 40-year-old man informed them early Tuesday morning of a body that was discovered by other residents in his shack. The old man went missing on Monday night. “They were confused because they saw him taking out his 11-year-old child Unam and was helping other people. They don’t know why he could’ve gone back to his house as the fire was already burning ,” said Zekani. When The Cape Argus visited Nomvuzo Xolo, 40, she was still wearing the same  clothes from the previous night. She could not save anything. “It was around 10pm when I heard a noise outside. When I listened carefully I heard people screaming that ‘it’s burning, people must come out’. I ran out to check how far the fire was from my house, and it was by my neighbours house. I was confused as it was chaotic, everyone trying to see what they can save.  “My neighbours assisted me in taking out my children, as it was too late to save anything else,” Xolo said. Another affected resident Zukiswa Zinto, 35, said she was worried as schools were re-opening and her children had no uniform. “I am hoping that people who can, will assist us. We slept outside in the cold. The last time we ate was before the fire started, no one has offered us food. I had a big shack and the amount of material we will be getting will not be enough,” said Zinto. Disaster management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said the emergency 
sheltering was activated at a community centre. “The Mustadafin foundation will provide humanitarian relief. Various City Services are on scene making assessments, to ensure that basic services are restored. Informal settlement Management will issue  fire kits for residents to rebuild their dwellings,” Powell said.  @okuhle_hlati   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus