A group of them said after they had protested for textbooks and were stripped of additional weekend classes last year that they believed they were inadequately prepared for the matric exams and they want justice. The school's matric pass rate dropped from 91.4% in 2016 to 63.3% last year, and pupils claim its due to the lack of support they received from the principal, Charlotte Little, and teachers who did not listen to their concerns. “In Grade 12 we need all the resources and support we can get. We only got our isiXhosa and English textbooks in the third term and we had to strike to get them. Our teacher told us that there is only an electronic copy available of our books but they provide us with no computers and not all of us have phones,” said Mustaq Stoutz. “In the first term they noticed we weren’t doing well and, as a prefect, I went to her and advised her to give us extra classes. She said only a small number of people would come, so there was no use,” said Adechina Cassissi. The six pupils listed their complaints, which included being taught through PowerPoints as textbooks were not available, not receiving notes in class as teachers were not allowed to use the copy printer, and the fact that the end-of-year exams started late. “Pure Maths papers started at 9.30am and they're supposed to start at 9am. When you start late, psychologically it’s difficult. You write to get it done, you don’t write to get it right. The majority of us failed English, and the mathematics students who should get  70% got 50%. “They compromised our exam. While I was writing my exam, the principal’s secretary spoke to me and took me out of the venue and put me in a different venue with people who were repeating the exam. Those who failed asked the principal if they can come back for extra classes and she said she doesn’t want them in her school,” said Stoutz. The group went to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) to report the ways in which their exams were compromised, but they were told to lay a complaint at a department in Bellville. Teachers at the school who asked to remain anonymous corroborated the pupils' story. Two teachers confirmed that pupils received their textbooks only before their June exams and that many of their exams had started late. Chief director for examination and assessment management for the department, Tina Singh, said she had received a complaint from pupils regarding papers being handed out late and examiners abiding by their own rules and said she had investigated the matter. “He (Stoutz) sent me an e-mail during exams to complain and we sent out a monitor to the examination room. Nothing he said was picked up. There may have been administrative issues at the beginning of the exam, but the candidates were in no way disadvantaged. Singh, however, said that any school where the pass rate slumped from 90% to 60% needed to be investigated. Department spokesperson Millicent Merton said the department organised holiday schools for 10 000 Grade 12 pupils at 160 high schools, which Vista High School pupils were welcome to attend. “The department provided a 104-page matric support document to all matrics in August. The WCED investigated complaints from learners during the exams and found no evidence to support the allegations,” said Merton. Hands Off Our Teachers campaign chairperson Osman Shaboodien, who called for the removal of certain leaders in the department including Little, said the school needed intervention. “The school’s deputy principal was charged with insubordination. They brought a principal from outside into the school who had no familiarity with the school." Calls to Little's cellphone and secretary to get comment from her were fruitless. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus