At a mass meeting for claimants on Saturday the District Six Working Committee called for unity among the various groups representing the residents. “The meeting was part of the healing process with regards to the leadership. We are reaching out to all the groups. This is a golden opportunity for all of them to sit together,” said Shahied Ajam, chairperson of the working committee. The purpose of the meeting was to explain the implications of a recent court ruling as well as genuinely pull out all stops to unify the different claimant groups and relevant stakeholders under one umbrella so that they are able to address the government as a cohesive community in future. “My arm is getting lame from reaching out an olive branch. We have achieved our goal for the year and that was holding government responsible for the slow pace of restitution for the residents of District Six,” Ajam said. He is also calling for proper leadership to be established in the area to give residents a sense of proper direction. The committee took the government to court over the slow pace of restitution for District Six land claimants. The meeting came just two weeks after the Western Cape High Court sitting as the Lands Claim Court instructed the Department of Land Affairs and Rural Development to submit a “viable and sustainable development plan to the court by February 18, 2019”. Judge Jody Kollapen told the department that the redevelopment plan should contain the layout and design of the project, how many units would be built, how it would be funded, including allocating a budget, the exact time frames and how the housing units would be allocated. Tania Kleinhans-Cedras of the District Six Property Owners Advocacy Committee said that they are still trying to figure out who the Working Committee represents. “Ajam has an issue with his ego and with myself. He has disrespected me on many occasions,” said Kleinhans-Cedras. She said that before the court case they had tried to engage with Ajam but he refused. “They just refused to engage with us at all and our lawyer even requested a meeting with them which they ignored,” she said. Kleinhans-Cedras is gearing up for her own court battle with the department. Her advocacy group, representing landowners who are still waiting to be compensated for their property, have also, as a last resort, approached the court as they want to be compensated for two massive developments under way in the area. The District Six Beneficiary Trust has, however, expressed disappointment over recent comments Ajam made during a television interview where he accused the Trust of being corrupt. “They made these absurd statements and said our process was flawed and that we are corrupt. “We demand a public apology and plan on taking them on for those statements. We have nothing against unity. I completely agree that we have to speak with one voice,” said trust chairperson Dr Anwar Nagiah. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus