It is a family event where the young and old can enjoy live entertainment and delicious food as well as buy a variety of crafts and clothing from the vendors who have been invited to trade at the market. “This year, residents and tourists will be spoilt for choice with about 150 stalls at the market selling a range of crafts, food, toys, novelties and clothing items. The City’s Summer Market provides economic opportunities for our residents, especially those who trade to make a living, and I would love to see the traders growing their businesses and in turn further contributing towards job creation,” Plato said. The market has a variety of exciting new additions this year including a mini amusement park with rides for toddlers and teenagers as well as a wellness zone where patrons can enjoy an assortment of pampering sessions. This year also includes a food truck competition where three contestants eat a mega-meal onstage with the winner receiving R250 cash for consuming the meal the fastest. Five different food trucks will take turns presenting their dishes over five days, from December 19-23. The market is also an opportunity for upcoming music artists to showcase their talent via the Summer Star competition where they stand a chance of walking away with R30000 worth of prizes including R10000 in cash and funding towards producing their first single. Following auditions last week, the top 16 performers have been chosen to perform their songs on stage at the Company’s Garden and the judges will decide on the winner on December 23. Judges for the competition include Heart FM’s Denver Apolis, artist/producer Chad Saaiman, music producer Aki Khan, event organiser Theo Koopman, singer Jarrad Ricketts and Cape Argus Live Editor Lance Witten. “As an opportunity city, we are aware that we have an abundance of undiscovered talent in Cape Town and Event Management wants to assist them kick-start their music careers. “This competition is about uplifting and changing someone’s life,” said the city’s mayoral committee member for Urban Management, Grant Twigg. The market runs daily from 6pm-11pm from December 19 to 23. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus