Mthethwa was doing a walk-about with Bo-Kaap residents. “The declaration of the first batch of sites in the Bo-Kaap as heritage sites will be done before the end of January 2019. The start of public consultations on the second batch of sites will start in February,” Mthethwa said. He also said the Tana Baru cemetery and the first mosque in South Africa, the Alwan Mosque located in Dorp Street, along with various other sites will fall into the second batch of Bo-Kaap heritage sites consultation that will start next February. “The start of public consultation on the second batch of Bo-Kaap sites will start with a workshop because it is vital that we understand what is happening and we will start the process with a workshop with the leadership,” he said. Mthethwa said the start of consultation to declare Bo-Kaap as a heritage site will start in the new year. “We are not only going to end there, we want it to be a World Heritage site. We are going to go all the way.” Mthethwa’s visit comes just a few days after the City of Cape Town’s council approved the Mayoral Committee’s recommendation that the City undertake this public-participation process as soon as possible for the proposal that the Bo-Kaap be included in a Heritage Protection Overlay.      #BoKaap @ArtsCultureSA minister @NathiMthethwaSA is doing a tour of the iconic #BoKaap area. @TheCapeArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/TqEmaerxyI A dossier for the proposed Heritage Protection Overlay for the Bo-Kaap will be publicly available on the City’s website in the new year and at the local library and Sub-council 16 office. The dossier will contain maps indicating the boundaries of the area to be included in the zoning, as well as the purpose and intent of an Heritage Protection Overlay, general guidelines, and responses to some frequently asked questions. The City will, as part of the public participation process, issue registered letters to owners of properties within the Bo-Kaap area, and add notices in rates bills to notify residents and local businesses, and to invite them to participate and engage with the City about the proposal. But mayor Dan Plato said that an Heritage Protection Overlay does not prevent development from taking place. “The zoning of a property includes both the base zoning and overlay zoning and, as such, the Heritage Protection Overlay requires the City to consider, in addition to the base zoning, the impact on heritage significance where alterations, consolidations, demolitions, or new developments are proposed on properties that fall within the Heritage Protection Overlay.” Seeham Samaai from the Bo-Kaap Collective said: “The problem we see in Bo-Kaap is a growing problem of spatial apartheid planning and we are seeing a dispossession of our people. “We are fighting for the heart and soul of the city.” The Bo-Kaap ratepayers association will be back in court soon where a court date for arguments between the association and Blok developers is set to be determined. The association claimed a small victory when the development was temporarily postponed. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus