This is according to Dr Delano van der Linde from the Faculty of Law at North-West University, who obtained his doctorate in criminal law from Stellenbosch University last week. Van der Linde did a comprehensive analysis of the legislative history of POCA, studying each crime and punishment under the act and said the study of criminal gang activity from a legal perspective was neglected and deserving of an investigation into why anti-gang strategies weren’t working. “Residents of the Cape Flats, Westbury in Johannesburg, and the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth live in constant fear as gang members continue to kill each other and innocent residents on a daily basis. “While many solutions have been put forward to deal with gangs, one of the major problems is the ineffectiveness of anti-gang legislation. “POCA was enacted to combat, organised crime, money laundering and criminal gang activities and has been inadequate in dealing with criminal gangs.” Van de Linde said the act was ineffective due to several institutional and constitutional shortcomings which included having broad interpretations of “criminal gang” and “criminal gang activity” under POCA. Van de Linde said the court did not necessarily have to follow these “open definitions” which is unfair to those who stand accused of offences dealing with criminal gang activity. Van der Linde explained that apart from the terms open to interpretation, the sentencing of gang members was also extremely weak - ranging from three to eight years, which could be increased by aggravating factors such as committing gang-related crimes close to schools. “Section 10(3) makes it possible to increase a person’s sentence for any crime merely because he or she is a gang member. “A gang member who is found guilty of a speeding offence can therefore face increased punishment.” Van der Linde said this was irrational and should be amended as it was unconstitutional and violated the right to freedom of association. Drawing from international criminal law, van der Linde suggested alternative mechanisms for holding gang leaders liable for crimes committed by their subordinates. “Under international criminal law, leaders of military and civil organisations can be held responsible for the actions of their subordinates as well as where such persons have committed atrocities. Similar modes of liability can easily be introduced into South African law. “Where a gang member commits a crime on behalf of a superior, the superior could be held liable as if he or she committed the crime him- or herself.” athina.may@inl.co.za Cape Argus