Several others were injured. They said they consistently raised their concerns about the shootings and the safety of their areas but the response from the police has been “wholly” inadequate. On Thursday, residents of these areas picketed outside the Bishop Lavis police station to hand over their demands. One of the community leaders, Nadia Mayman De Grass, said they had been appealing to the police for some time. “Gangs are waging war against the working class and the SAPS is failing in its mandate to protect the citizens. Enough is enough.” De Grass said. “We will no longer allow these murderous scum to terrorise our communities.” Bishop Lavis Action Community member Robert Brown said they wanted a permanent deployment of the tactical response team to the Bishop Lavis precinct, the reallocation of police personnel away from the suburbs to the hot spots. “We demand that Bonteheuwel has its own police station, the immediate eviction of gang leaders and drug lords.” Brown said they demanded the immediate arrest of all gang members as per the Proceeds of Crime Act. They also wanted an integrated community safety plan to be monitored by communities. The picket comes four days after the devastating shooting in Bishop Lavis where Jade Johannes, 4, and Lesley-Ann 6, were killed, and seven others were injured. Jade’s grandmother, Elizabeth Stanfield, said she was distraught and traumatised by the incident. She was convinced her brother, William Stanfield, was the target. “My children were with my brother when the shooting happened at the corner shop,” she said. Stanfield said her brother was shot in the left leg. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) members in conjunction with detectives were working around the clock following the shooting incident. Potelwa said on Thursday that AGU members arrested two suspects, both 27, for the shooting incident in Kreefgat, Bonteheuwel. “The AGU members also took six others in for questioning,” Potelwa said. Community Safety MEC Alan Winde commended the police for the swift arrests of five suspects following various fatal shootings over the past few days in Bishop Lavis, Mitchells Plain and Kensington. Winde said the detectives, the AGU and officers who assisted with the investigation, which led to the arrests, must be applauded. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus