The City’s 28-page HPOZ document also outlines how locals could enhance the heritage of the neighbourhood while it defines the geographic location and extent of the protection offered. On Thursday, Cape Town mayor Dan Plato will put forward a proposal at the council to start a second round of public participation on the HPOZ. The first proposal for heritage protection for Bo-Kaap was raised at the council in 2013. It has been stalled since then, despite an initial round of public participation in 2015. Bo-Kaap Ratepayers and Civic Association secretary Jacky Poking said on Sunday they would monitor the City’s 30-day public participation process once it begins. She said they would also hold the mayor accountable for an implementation timeline. “We met the mayor on Friday where he clarified what he meant with putting this (HPOZ) proposal through (to council). We encourage all communities to offer input to this proposal,” said Poking. The HPOZ addresses a number of challenges that residents raised this year through protests. It recognises Bo-Kaap as the oldest residential area in Cape Town and the country’s first Muslim settlement. It describes Bo-Kaap as a “unique historical urban landscape with a vibrant, living culture and way of life”. It states: “The Bo-Kaap, owing to its proximity to the CBD, faces increased pressure of developers wanting to make the most of development opportunities.” It states that “implementing good heritage management with sustainable development” is a challenge. It mentions gentrification for its “deterioration of the culture and essence of the area”. “The loss of generational continuity as a result of gentrification is a threat which is faced throughout the CBD and is particularly evident in the historically less affluent areas such as Bo-Kaap, Woodstock and Salt River.” Bo-Kaap’s spacial planning is referred to as well, which has angered residents as they feel disenfranchised by developers who allegedly take over their streets. “The Bo-Kaap, with its narrow streets, is ill-suited to cope with modern-day parking and traffic. The streets are alive with pedestrians, many of whom are children and older people,” states the HPOZ. Poking said residents would continue their daily protests against Blok property developer, which has sought an interdict against them to prevent protests against its Lion Street development. Blok and residents will be back in the Western Cape High Court over this matter on December 18. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus