The worst was not over because the effect of the drought was still being felt, Agri Western Cape chairperson Carl Opperman said. “We can still feel the effects of this drought in the next two to three years. “When the drought expands we can still feel its effect. But there has been some improvement in the sector, and although we have seen losses, there are also some positive gains.” Opperman encouraged South Africans to buy local produce to support local farmers. He said one of the major challenges, apart from the drought, was the debate around the expropriation of land without compensation. “The situation is a death trap and the timing is not on our side. Every Constitution needs an expropriation clause. There is no Constitution that does not have such a clause. What needs to be said is that the government has failed to bring proper land reform. “It is the government that failed all those who elected them to serve. “So now why should farmers’ land be taken away? “The state is sitting with large portions of land, yet they are failing to bring about change. We cannot be blamed for that. Only the state can.” Jacque du Preez, general manager for trade and markets at deciduous fruits industry body Hortgro, said the expected exports for stone fruits were marginally less. “Our focus at this stage is on the 2018/19 season. Nectarines and plums are 3% less compared with last year. “Several of the earlier varients’ volumes ended lower, as expected. “One of the main reasons, especially with peaches and nectarines, was the heatwave in October. This led to lower production. There was also rain in some of the production areas. “This led to fruits having little marks, so could not be exported.” Du Preez said with some pome fruits it was too early to make predictions. The expected exports for apples were 11% less. “Most producers are in a better water situation, except for those in the Klein Karoo towns of Ladismith and Calitzdorp. There has been little rain in that region. Producers in other regions, such as Ceres, Berg Rivier and Stellenbosch, have good water supply which should be enough to get through the season and they will be able to grow fruits,” Du Preez said. MEC of Economic Opportunities Beverley Schäfer said the government would continue with augmenting water schemes. “We will invest in our water systems to ensure farmers and consumers have enough supply. This has been a difficult time for farmers, but we will continue to support where we can. “Due to an improved water situation, things are looking much better.” jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus