Cape Town - Cape Town Street Parade, in partnership with the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape Government and Coca-Cola (Peninsula Beverages), again promises a world class event on 2 January 2019 for the residents of Cape Town and for visitors to the Mother City. Previously known as the Tweede Nuwe Jaar Minstrel Parade, the organisers of the new format Cape Town Street Parade have worked to build an inclusive carnival for everyone who participates in it and who support it – its stakeholders, communities and all cultures and religions. Minstrel troupes from all areas across Cape Town will perform in the streets of the city centre between Keizersgracht Street in District Six and Rose Street in the Bo Kaap, building on the long tradition and legacy of Tweede Nuwe Jaar which has been celebrated in the Cape for over 110 years. “Last year we saw the best Tweede Nuwe Jaar celebrations that Cape Town has seen in many years. This year we will build on that success and look forward to a spectacular community event that is the biggest cultural event in Africa. We are encouraged by the large number of troupes that have already registered for 2019, and we expect at least 50 troupes to participate on the day,” says Muneeb Gambeno, Director of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA), organisers of the Cape Town Street Parade. JP Smith, Mayco Member for Safety and Security, and Social Services, said the City is proud to be one of the sponsors of the celebrations: “This is a key cultural event for all the residents of Cape Town, and the well organised event that we saw last year made great strides in developing this into an iconic event that rivals some of the greatest street parades in the world. The event draws a diversity of cultures from across the city. It is recognised globally as being synonymous with Cape Town alongside Table Mountain.” Western Cape Minister of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Anroux Marais, said, “Central to our efforts at the DCAS is creating an enabling environment in which all who call the Western Cape home feel a sense of identity, belonging and unity. In our multicultural context, cultural diversity should indeed be celebrated and protected as cultural affairs contribute to the holistic development of the individual and subsequent empowerment of communities while uplifting South Africa as a whole. "We wholeheartedly thank all who had a hand in the success of what promises to be the best Cape Town Street Parade yet and I trust all will thoroughly enjoy the biggest cultural event in South Africa with all its new surprises in a safe and responsible manner.  May the festival continue to grow from strength to strength as it affords the opportunity for cultural expression to flourish not only in Cape Town but across the Western Cape.” Gambeno added that they have made significant improvements in arrangements for next year: “Based on feedback, we will be making full use of the Grand Parade and the procession will loop its way onto the Parade in order to create a festival atmosphere and allow more people access to watching it. "People attending the event are encouraged to come to the Grand Parade to be a part of the festivities and enjoy the new route onto the Grand Parade. The Coke Gig Rig will be set up for entertainment and a big screen will ensure as many people as possible are able to see. For this reason there will be no gazebos allowed on the Grand Parade.” For the second year, a special Tweede Nuwe Jaar theme song has been produced for the celebrations, and this year, the song titled “It’s a Cape Town thing, n Kaapse ding!” is sung by local artist Shadley Schroeder. The song can be heard on the 2018 highlights video which can be viewed on the Cape Town Street Parade’s Facebook page, and it will be performed as part of the entertainment on the Grand Parade. Entertainment starts from 12h00, with an opening ceremony on the Grand Parade at around 1pm and celebrations will continue up until 10pm. The event expects to draw crowds of between 60 000 and 100 000 people, with the live entertainment including artists such as the legendary Loukmaan Adams, TDV.91 and other live bands, and Waseef Piekaan will perform MC duties. Street acts include Street Activation Acts, Football Freestylers, Khoisan Plasterz - Freestyle Dance Crew, Thandi Swartbooi Township Dance Academy, 7 Steps Drumline, 20Sk8 Skate Development and the Bo-Kaap Blikkie Band. Audiences will enjoy a Life-size Puppet and can participate in Live Mural Painting with Russel Abrahams and Yay Abe. There will be limited  Gold Circle Tickets going on sale just before Christmas for R100 a ticket. This area will allow patrons the best views of the Minstrels  and is positioned right in front of the Coke Gig Rig where live acts play on the day. Follow on Cape Town Street Parade social media for news of the release date of these tickets. All troupes are required to register with the KKKA by 21 December and can contact Dennis Petersen on denis.petersen@gmail.com or 072 145 1597. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus