This single issue has been the cause of the disarray within the provincial DA, with former mayor Patricia de Lille citing it as one of the reasons why she quit her job and the DA and former mayco member Brett Herron throwing down the gauntlet over the issue as he exited his post at transport and urban development. Both have started a new party with social housing as a central theme of their election bid for next year. “In 2018 we compelled the government to realise that in a city that’s segregated like Cape Town, land is at the heart of transformation, particularly in addressing urban land injustice,” said Reclaim The City’s Nkosikhona Swartbooi. He said the release of public land for affordable social housing was a progressive step towards undoing the legacy of apartheid spatial planning. Earlier this year, the Cape Argus reported the City owns over 44000 pieces of land in the metro and yet is unable to meet the demand for housing. The City’s land audit was done by research organisation Open Up. The research showed how much the land is valued at and where it is. The organisation showed that there is, for instance, land available in Hanover Park, Langa, Heideveld and Claremont. It also showed the values of the City-owned property. “Next year, we’re hoping to see more pieces of well-located land being released for social housing and will push for an implementation plan for the sites already released. Because we categorically believe that land should be used for people, not for profit, and that’s what we’ll forever struggle for,” Swartbooi said. Herron repeatedly said there was a “white cabal” within the party deliberately blocking social housing projects. “When I was appointed to take on the housing function for the City of Cape Town in January 2017 as the Mayco member for Transport and Urban Development, it soon became clear to me that DA governments had failed, since 2006, to live up to their obligations in terms of the Constitution and the Housing Act. “The DA had prioritised delivering free basic housing, RDP or BNG, on poorly located land on the outskirts of the City. This created suburbs of poverty, and perpetuating the physical traits of exclusion was the design of the apartheid government’s Group Areas Act,” Herron said. The ANC in the Western Cape, however, has vowed to make social housing a top priority as it prepares itself for the 2019 elections. “Housing delivery in the province has been very slow and when we get into power we plan on using the land we own to provide housing opportunities, and not sell it off to private developers,” said Faiez Jacobs, ANC provincial secretary. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus