“It was a challenging day but our team managed to get the matches off the ground as soon as we were given the all clear from the tournament referees. Unfortunately, we do not control the weather but I am proud of how all stakeholders rallied together to save the day’s play,” tournament secretary, Zaynoel Bawa explained. He said that after consulting the umpires and team managers and after assessing the fields, some matches had to be relocated to different venues. “All matches that were scheduled on the Yorkshire and Rylands turf wickets had to be moved to the Sunnyside and Ottomans fields, respectively. “Once the clouds cleared and the first ball was bowled, we all said a silent prayer as these youngsters travelled very far to participate in this tournament and we did not want to disappoint them,” he added. One team that travelled two days - approximately 1 500 kilometres - was the under-12 boys team from Namibia. According to coach Lauritz Haccou it is a privilege for his team to compete in this international event. “Our team is excited to be playing here in South Africa. They are getting to interact with other players while also gaining experience and insight into how the game is played in South Africa.” Under-13 coach for Stellenbosch, Ashley Dhelminie said that Awqaf SA and Primroses CC T20 Youth Cricket tournament is one that many clubs have been looking forward to. “They are playing against teams who have provincial players in their team. Our players are getting to compete against other players who are perhaps playing on a level above them and they get to test their own skills to see how good they really are.” Dhelminie noted that the tournament has excelled in its mandate of bringing youth together from different backgrounds, under the umbrella of social cohesion. “We have a vast number of players coming from different areas, ethnicities and financial backgrounds. Some of our players come from affluent areas while others come from struggling households. “This tournament has allowed these boys and girls to interact with each other, to get a better understanding of the world around them. This is the spirit of the game.” Meanwhile the under-15 Blue Bells team scored a T20 record 282 runs against Langa on day one. Yesterday Natheer Sambo scored 157. Under-13 bowler, Zander Van Tonder, took 3/12 in his first match and later 5/18. The tournament continues today, with the finals at the Primrose CC home ground in Kenilworth tomorrow. For more information call 082 413 2838 or visit www.awqafsa.org.za. To follow the match fixtures and scores in real-time, download the app: http://bit.do/t20youthtournament. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus