“The first time I heard about Stellenbosch University was in Grade 11, through my guidance teacher, who studied theology at Stellenbosch. “He told us about the university and when I saw pictures of the campus I think I fell in love with the environment before arriving at the actual place and I just knew that’s where I’m going. I didn’t apply anywhere else.” After matriculating from Kliptown Secondary School in 2007, Ntsapi wanted to study chemical engineering, but needed to improve her marks. She heard about the bridging programme called SciMathUS, which stands for science and mathematics at Maties. She enrolled for the programme and did very well, but soon realised that she actually wanted to study BSc. “When I was in school, I didn’t know there were so many different variations of science. I knew I wanted to do something in science and, when the SciMathUS programme gave us more exposure to this field, I knew that’s what I wanted to do. The SciMathUS programme opened doors for me; it gave me a second chance and time to discover my true passion.” Ntsapi said that she never thought she would get to a PhD level. She is the first person in her family to receive a PhD. “My family has always been very supportive of my studies, even if they don’t always understand what my research is about. Throughout my postgraduate studies, I’ve had to sacrifice many holidays with my family, but what kept me going was knowing that I was contributing to something bigger than myself.” Ntsapi’s PhD research focused on the role of autophagy, the process through which our cells eat themselves in Alzheimer’s disease and how this process could potentially be controlled to help combat this devastating neurodegenerative disease. Ntsapi said that, during her MSc degree, which focused on Parkinson’s disease, it was the important human angle to her research that motivated her. “Doing this type of research can be very lonely sometimes and you don’t see results immediately or experiments don’t always work, but you have to stay positive and keep going. There are actually people who are affected by the work that we do. Being part of the medical research field, is being part of something bigger than yourself. “It is this realisation that became a driving force for me to continue in this field of research. I may not be the one who ultimately discovers the cure for Alzheimer’s disease, but I feel that we all have a little piece of the puzzle to add to the bigger picture of solving the problem and eventually getting translatable results.” argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus