Zille’s son Paul Maree is a director of Paper Video, a company that loaded teaching material onto tablets purchased via the education department. The devices were returned to the department. ANC MPL Cameron Dugmore had filed a complaint with Mkhwebane alleging Maree, unduly benefited from his relationship to the premier. Mkhwebane found that Zille’s conduct gave him an “unfair advantage” and ordered Speaker of the legislature, Sharna Fernandez, to take steps to hold Zille to account within 30 days. It is the newest legal tiff between the two. Zille has rejected the findings. “The public protector has once again reflected her severely limited understanding of the Constitution and the law and I will, yet again, be taking her finding against me on review to the high court,” Zille said yesterday. “There wasn’t any conflict of interest between my public role as premier and the fact that I supported my son, a maths teacher in Khayelitsha at the time, to borrow equipment of the WCED, in order to run free matric preparation workshops in disadvantaged schools,” she said. Zille said insofar as there may have been a perception of a conflict of interest, she fulfilled the requirements of the law in mitigating it. “I wish to stress that if I faced the same situation today, as I did then, in 2014, I would do exactly the same because it was the right thing to do. “The director-general of the province, advocate Brent Gerber, would also do the same thing again, because it was entirely lawful, constitutional, and appropriate in the circumstances. “My son was a maths teacher in Khayelitsha. He prepared free matric revision programmes that he wanted to give, at no charge, during the October school holidays to disadvantaged learners. He presented the revision workshop at the school where he taught and he offered the same revision courses to other schools. This offer was warmly accepted. However, at some of them, the digital platform was inadequate,” Zille said. ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said Zille should admit she was wrong to offer assistance to a workshop programme. He urged her not to waste taxpayers’ money by appealing against Mkhwebane’s finding on the matter. “This was a breach of the constitutional requirement that procurement should happen in a fair and transparent manner,” Jacobs said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus