The outspoken church has hung a massive banner outside its church that reads: “Cape Town, how I long to visit you, but there is no room for the poor in your inner city.” It is signed off by Jesus. Rector of the congregation, Reverend Alan Storey, said: “For national, provincial and local government to sell public vacant land to private developer and not use the land for housing is a sin.” He said it was time that new laws and policies were put in place. “It hasn’t just become a problem, it’s the legacy of apartheid, and we have to start correcting the past. We need to start putting new laws in place for those who were forcibly removed from their homes,” Storey said. The banner was put up this month. The church is well known for displaying tongue-in cheek banners. In March this year, the church put up a banner reading: “Jesus was the first to decriminalise sex work.” This forms part of the church’s Yellow Banner Theology, the goal of the banners as a billboard for the Gospel. With hand-painted bright yellow banners, they aimed to engage the public on topical issues from a Gospel perspective. The church also made headlines in October after giving refuge to 30 people from nine families in Blikkiesdorp. The families had fled their homes, fearing for their lives, because they felt threatened by a group of people trying to force themselves onto the housing waiting list. “The church has to be involved in these issues because we live in a democratic society and we are not governed by apartheid laws where the church couldn’t have a say,” he said But the City’s mayoral committee member for human settlements, Malusi Booi, took a different view of the banner and its intended message. “Their call is unjustified and the City has more than 10 housing projects planned in the Woodstock area. “That banner is merely for people just to take note of the church,” Booi said. Among those projects was the Salt River market site. The City came under fire for shelving the development in October. The development, which would have been groundbreaking in its inclusion of social housing, was sent back to the council for deliberation. Initially, Communicare was to buy the 1.7 hectares of land, valued at R144million, for R1.8m to build a R715m high-rise building. The plans were sent back to the portfolio committee on transport and urban development for investigation and to answer questions. This raised the ire of advocacy groups who accused the City of blocking the project. Reclaim the City said the municipality was deliberately shutting out the poor. “Are we surprised that the right-wing DA is saying that the church’s banner is unjust?” asked Reclaim the City leader in Woodstock, Deena Bosch. “They have no commitment in correcting the injustice of the past. The Methodist (church) is right to be involved. “It is unconstitutional; the government has a constitutional obligation to provide people with houses.” She praised the church for backing the call for social housing in the city. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus