Sibusiso Buthelezi held a press briefing over the weekend to address the concerns raised by the Ex-Political Prisoners Association (EPPA) in a press briefing last week. The association told the media that it had submitted 18 questions to the management team. Their concerns ranged from steps which would be taken to ensure socio-economic benefits for former political prisoners, including those who worked on the island, to solutions regarding the improvement of relations with the workers. The EPPA also demanded answers about measures that the museum had taken against the entities that were found guilty of price fixing and collusion by the Competition Commission. “2018 marks the 100th-year celebration of Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu and it is surprising that the EPPA seeks to divert attention from the role these individuals played as acknowledged nationally and internationally. “RIM has not received any official communication from the EPPA regarding the questions they purport to have posed to the chief executive of RIM. It is therefore misleading to tell the media that RIM did not respond to the issues raised by the EPPA,” Buthelezi added. Buthelezi said the EPPA briefing had distorted the way the museum was managed and governed, and the association further failed to explain the context. He said the dispute stemmed from the chief executive’s refusal to give Mpho Masemola, national secretary of the association, a guarantee letter for the use of a new boat Masemola and his business partner were importing due to the current procurement process. “Mpho Masemola indicated his unhappiness with the chief executive’s refusal to offer such a letter of guarantee and threatened to take action, including but not limited to going public, on the matter of RIM refusing to issue the guarantee letter,” he said. He said the museum was a public entity established in terms of the Cultural Institutions Act in 1997. “It should be noted that Robben Island is no longer a prison but a museum. I can confirm that the role of ex-political prisoners, who provide living heritage, are at the centre of this significance. However, the EPPA is but one of RIM’s important stakeholders, as are the large number of ex-political prisoners who are not members of the EPPA,” he said. Denying the allegations, Masemola said: “It’s an open secret that the EPPA is in a process of forming a partnership with a private business partner in a form of a BEE status to supply boats to Robben Island.” zodidi.dano@inl.co.za Cape Argus