“The City’s Fire and Rescue Services responded to the fire in Voortrekker Road, Maitland, just after 9pm on Saturday. Upon their arrival the entire structure was engulfed in flames, it took firefighters around one hour to contain. “Eventually the fire was extinguished after two hours. “Fourteen firefighters with two fire engines were on the scene, the cause of the fire is undetermined at this stage,” said Theo Layne spokesperson of the City’s Fire and Rescue Services. The cornerstone of the church building was laid on May 15, 1903, and the building was consecrated in June 1904 as a ward church of the Groote Kerk. The caretaker of the church, Emily Maarman, said: “I was at home and at around 8pm my friend phoned me. “She phoned me to inform me that the church was burning. When we came here it was flames all over.” Maarman said the congregants of the church were so heartbroken by the fire, they gathered on Sunday morning as normal for their service. According to one of the congregants, Amanda Hansloo, who was the last person inside the church on Christmas Day, she switched off all the plugs and appliances. “We run a soup kitchen and I was here on Christmas day locking up the church and I switched all the stoves and things off. I don’t understand how something like this happened,” said Hansloo.      MUST WATCH: The Maitland Community Church was destroyed by a massive fire in the early hours of Sunday morning. Full story tomorrow. @TheCapeArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/CLUyOCT1Dd Reverend Riaan de Villiers from the Dutch Reformed Church Cape Town said: “We have a deep connection with the church for many years. We believe that this is a congregation we have much to learn from.” Juanita Greyvenstein, who is the presiding reverend at the church, said: “There were no people inside. We got a call to say the church was on fire. “We do not know what the cause is yet, we are waiting on the report from authorities. “This morning people still arrived for church not knowing it had burnt to the ground. “We are devastated. We are a beacon for the poor and the homeless, and now we cannot help anyone at all. But we will have a service next Sunday on the premises. Then we will have to rebuild.” marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus