According to the City, the purpose of the Recreational Water Use by-law is to regulate the use of recreational water in the Cape Peninsula; to control the use of vessels on inland water bodies so as to provide for safe and environmentally sensitive recreation. The by-law focuses on the recreational use of natural inland water bodies and has no effect on water use for domestic or other lawful purposes. The management of water-based recreational activities in the City is to-date governed by by-laws promulgated by the previous Cape Town and Milnerton municipalities. Those by-laws were outdated, inconsistent with one another and did not align with more recent national regulations governing inland waterbodies, the City said. However, ACDP councillor Grant Haskin, who supported the adoption of the by-law, said that for this by-law to have any effect and impact, it would need to be effectively enforced. “The City has proposed no increase in its own law enforcement establishment, meaning enforcement staffing will come from the current City establishment which is already so under-staffed that it cannot stretch itself further,” Haskin said. “Without knowing the costs of enforcement, there is little chance the municipality will be able to deliver effective and efficient enforcement,” he said. According to the by-law the City may, “where good cause exists”, prohibit access to any recreational water. “The City may prescribe access control points and appoint access control, visitor control or compliance staff for any recreational water. “The City may prescribe fees as per its published tariff schedule as well as authorise the issuing of permits for any activity or for the use of any amenity or facility provided by the City, in connection with any recreational water,” the by-law states. It also states that no person may enter, perform any activity, be in or on or remain in or on any recreational water or any amenity or facility in or on any recreational water unless he or she has paid the prescribed charge or fee at an access control point. The City may also in the interests of public safety for disaster management or for the purposes of environmental management evacuate or close any recreational water for an appropriate period of time. DA councillor Elizabeth Brunette said the by-law made provision for all water sports and she stressed that a public participation process was held. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus