Weeks ago, in announcing her plans to start a new party, De Lille’s speech was peppered with the word “good”, and now she has turned it into a movement and a party that will ­contest the national elections next year. “I am proud to honour that promise and announce that the movement is named ‘Good’. The movement’s name and identity is here for all of you to see. It is a simple and authentic name that says quite boldly: we stand for good, and that we are here to disrupt politics as usual,” De Lille said. But not everybody believes that De Lille’s plans are paved with good intentions. Professor Bheki Mngomezulu, from the UWC’s political science faculty, said he doesn’t think it’s a wise move. “I still maintain that this is a very bad move because this is the same person who moved out of her own organisation. I think she should have joined an existing party. She should have just stepped aside; she has the political experience, and that we cannot take away from her. She has done this out of outrage and anger, and this doesn’t have a very long life.” He said he was not worried only about De Lille’s party, but about all political parties. “I don’t think De Lille’s party has what it takes to be a king-maker, because that’s what we will need, and it will cause a much bigger dent in the DA if her party does become a king-maker,” he said. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said the name lacked imagination. “It’s like she is saying as a country it doesn’t matter what you come up with. It lacks imagination, or sense of alternative. Good what? There is no doubt she will get two to three seats in Parliament; the bar is very low. There are a lot of people who are disgruntled with the ruling party, and the DA is having its own internal problems with the racism allegations.” Farouk Cassim from Cope said: “The problem is that we have too many political parties, and having another won’t make much difference. It’s ironic that every time there is a split in any party, there’s a new party. Will any other party make a dent? From what I’m sensing, people are frustrated. This is why, to my mind, parties should move to voters and civic organisations.” De Lille’s announcement came just two weeks after she said she would start a new party. At her press conference were some familiar faces; former DA chief whip Shaun August was ­present, and former mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron was also there. De Lille said her party would focus on four key themes: spatial justice, social justice, economic justice and environmental justice. “Race and space have defined life and opportunities for centuries. No democratic government has tackled apartheid’s spatial legacy. It persists in our country,” she said. Herron said the government had failed when it came to spatial planning. De Lille said that since her announcement regarding her new party she had received many offers of financial support. “At the moment, as you know, there is a bill before Parliament where all political parties will have to state where they get their funds from, and we will be making that public when the president signs the bill,” she said. marvin.charles@inl.co.za; zodidi.dano@inl.co.za Cape Argus