The CTMCA announced this turnaround yesterday after it had initially taken the matter to the Western Cape High Court earlier this month. CTMCA spokesperson Hilton Nyirenda said they wanted to “find middle ground” because “this is a very delicate situation”. CTMCA had taken legal action against the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA) and the City of Cape Town after it was not granted a city permit to host the annual Tweede Nuwe Jaar street parade and subsequent minstrel competitions. The latter run through January and February. JP Smith, the City’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, said City officials had instead granted the permit to KKKA because CTMCA “had debt and are not in good standing”. Smith said the KKKA had been “assessed and deemed compliant”. He said CTMCA had run the street parade in “previous years, but it was always late and run badly”. “The matter with the minstrels is a painful situation for the City. Minstrel groups are so aggressively divided. It is not possible to please all of them. Whatever you do, it ends up in court.” He said CTMCA had already brought six court applications against the City in the past three years. Smith said the City had hoped the two minstrel groups could work together, but “personalities involved” prevented this, and while he “had meetings with all of them”, they could not get the groups to co-operate.” Muneeb Gambeno, one of the KKKA directors, said they were willing to work with the CTMCA, but the latter had “rejected” this offer. Hosting the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade comes with funding from the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape government. Gambeno said the City had given the KKKA R2.2 million. He said this did not cover all their expenses, though, as they spent at least R800 000 on security, R300 000 on fencing and a large amount on mobile toilets. Nyirenda said they had sought to co-host the minstrel events, but Gambeno said at this late stage that would not be possible. “We can build a unified partnership, but they feel we would be usurping them as an organisation. We offered for them to participate with us and they did not want that. That’s why we couldn’t settle.” Jacky Poking, secretary of the Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association, meanwhile said they were “prepared” for the parade “regardless of who is organising it”. “We engage with community members to help in terms of safekeeping in order for people to have a good event. We ask that event organisers and the City provide the necessary arrangements. We want the minstrels and the Malay choirs and Christmas bands in our area, but need to ensure that it’s a safe event.” yazeed.kamaldien@gmail.com Cape Argus