Provincial police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: “Parties to usher in the new year will be policed The police is bracing (itself) for scores of people descending on public spaces and local beaches. “Roadblocks, vehicle checkpoints, as well as stop searches will take place at identified strategic locations. “Police on foot, horseback, motorcycles and vehicles will undertake policing duties in a bid to ensure all are and feel safe.” Potelwa said the police have “observed a disturbing pattern of children who visit beaches and other public spaces on their own without adult supervision throughout this holiday period”. The City of Cape Town’s Identikidz project rolled out at beaches also indicated parental negligence as “120 children became separated from their parents or caregivers”, according to officials. “A total of 104 (children) were successfully reunited at the beach, while 16 children were placed in the care of the Western Cape Department of Social Development on Boxing Day and later reunited with their families.” The City of Cape Town said on Sunday: “With a host of events on the cards in the coming days, good beach conditions and the end of school holidays in sight, the City’s enforcement, emergency and related services staff are on high alert and pulling extra hourswhere needed to ensure public safety.” Apart from ubiquitous New Year’s Eve parties tonight, thousands of people are also expected at the annual Tweede Nuwe Jaar Street Parade in the city centre on Wednesday. A number of inner city streets will be closed off for the parade, which runs from midday until late. Muneeb Gambeno, director of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association, which organises the parade, said they have banned gazebos, which locals usually erect for shade during the day. “We want everybody to be able to see the troupes.” JP Smith, the City’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, said: “My appeal to people is to not become a statistic, either for drunk driving or as a road fatality. There have been a shocking number of deaths on our roads already this month. There has been enough heartbreak and devastation on our roads already.” City enforcement staff confiscated 6790 bottles of alcohol from beaches and other public spaces since December 1 in a bid to clamp down on drunken driving. “This represents a near 20% increase compared to the same period in 2017,” said the City. “Cape Town traffic service arrested 260 persons for driving under the influence at various roadblocks, while the Metro police department made an additional 77 arrests. Collectively, this figure too represents a 20% increase year-on-year.” Eleven designated fireworks spots have meanwhile been confirmed for New Year’s Eve. “All sites will have an enforcement and fire service presence and will be open until just after midnight.” yazeed.kamaldien@inl.co.za Cape Argus