Parties said that the City's leadership was failing ratepayers by asking it to pay for infrastructure services that are operational but not producing anything. This comes after the Cape Argus reported on the Strandfontein and Monwabisi desalination plants, which had stopped working. Mayoral committee member for water waste services and energy Xanthea Limberg said the plants were unable to produce water without causing damage to the sensitive membrane filtration systems when the sea water was highly turbid or contained large numbers of algal cells, such as in the case of the recent natural algal bloom in False Bay. But Cope councillor Farouk Cassiem said: “This shows again that the leadership of the City has not done its work properly. Who chose that site and why did they not know the risks of that particular site? Scientific research should have been done to ensure that water was fit for its purpose. "Now we are running a plant that is not producing any water and it is costing the taxpayers millions of rand. They should have done the testing before proceeding with anything.” The two plants were expected to deliver 7 million litres of water a day and came at a cost of just more than R250 million each. Limberg said the algal bloom had dissipated in the False Bay area. "The Strandfontein plant is in production again while the Monwabisi plant will be in production again soon. "It must be noted that the City only pays for water that is actually injected into the reticulation system, hence the temporary suspension is not for the City's account, as claimed." ACDP councillor Grant Haskin said: “These plants that are operational, but not producing water will cause further problems in the future. "We have told our residents that restrictions have been dropped and that there will be no Day Zero. "Now people are hearing that the desalination plants are not working. This does not speak confidence into our ratepayers and going into summer, when people are going to be using more water than usual, we cannot expect water to last.” Haskin said restrictions should have remained in place, while tariffs drop. Meanwhile, the City said dam levels of Cape Town's supply dams declined by 0.9% over the past week to 69.5% of storage capacity. This is compared to dam levels of 34.3% at the same time last year. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus