Cape Town - The City of Cape Town is spending approximately R193 million on a major road infrastructure project that forms part of the roll-out of Phase 2A of the MyCiTi bus service to the Cape Flats. Preparations are under way to turn Jan Smuts Drive (M17) into a dual carriageway between the intersections with Turfhall Road (M24) and Govan Mbeki Road (M9), inclusive of two red bus lanes in the median. This section of Jan Smuts Drive covers a distance of approximately two kilometres, and is one of the main access routes to the M5 highway and Jakes Gerwel Drive. Apart from constructing additional lanes, the project includes the upgrade of two busy intersections: Jan Smuts Drive with Turfhall Road and Jan Smuts Drive with Blomvlei Road; as well as a 3 metre-wide walking lane on both sides of the road for pedestrians and cyclists; new signage; and the installation of street lights. "The contract value is approximately R193 million and the contractor is obliged to provide temporary work opportunities to the value of about R6,5 million to residents from the area. Furthermore, goods and services to the value of approximately R11 million must be procured from local businesses as far as possible," said City’s Mayco Member for Transport and Urban Development, Felicity Purchase. Residents who want to benefit must ensure that they are registered on the local subcouncil database. Local businesses are encouraged to submit tenders once the contractor has placed advertisements for the procurement of goods and services related to this project. "The investment in new road infrastructure will benefit all road users. Once completed, the additional lanes will relieve congestion along this section of Jan Smuts Drive, meaning residents will spend less time on the road,’ said Purchase. "Our local economy will also benefit because the movement of people and goods is pivotal for optimal productivity and economic growth." The project commenced in July 2018 and will be completed by December 2020, if all goes as planned. To date, the main focus has been on the relocation of the underground services such as water mains and electric infrastructure, Telkom lines and fibre optic cables – a complicated and time-consuming process. The contractor will undertake dust control measures to settle the loose soil as far as possible before the site is closed for the builders’ holiday on 14 December 2018. "I’ve been told that the contractor will commence with the roadworks after the builders’ holiday. Thus, as from 9 January 2019, residents will see some action above the ground with the construction of the new lanes to the western side of Jan Smuts Drive," said Alderman Purchase. A temporary traffic circle will be implemented at the intersection of Jan Smuts Drive and Turfhall Road in the new year to accommodate the traffic while the construction is under way. Purchase explained: "Adding capacity to our existing road network is important, but we are also working on establishing an efficient, affordable, extensive and intermodal public transport system. "The new BRT lanes along Jan Smuts Drive form part of the incremental roll-out of Phase 2A of the MyCiTi service between the Cape Flats, Wynberg and Claremont. Apart from the upgrade of Jan Smuts Drive, we are also busy with the upgrade of Stock Road in Philippi, and the construction of two new bus depots in Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha." Once fully rolled out, the proposed Phase 2A of the MyCiTi service will provide access for approximately 1,4 million residents from the outskirts of Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain to the urban centres of Wynberg and Claremont via a direct, efficient and scheduled public transport service. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus