Cape Town - More than 300 sexual assault cases are reported at the Thuthuzela Care Centre (TCC) at Karl Bremer Hospital each month. As part of the #16DaysofActivism campaign, Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo conducted an oversight visit with Community Safety MEC Alan Winde to the Karl Bremer Hospital. TCC clinical services manager Dr Almero Oosthuizen said about 30 to 40 of the sexual assault victims were children under the age of 12, with over 3000 sexual offence cases per annum. The visit was to highlight the services offered to victims of rape. Mbombo said the most important part of the visit was to take men on the journey of what women experienced as victims of rape and sexual assault. “Our campaign this year is focused on ‘ManUp’ and therefore we are calling on men to encourage one another to make women and children’s safety a man’s priority.” She said she invited men from leadership and community level to the highest office in the legislature to join the dialogue of ensuring that men are aware of how abuse affects “our women and children”. “Involving men in these conversations is crucial to deal with this scourge of violence and abuse in our communities. We are saying #ManUp and protect our women. We want to encourage men to speak up against gender-based violence and to speak to their brothers, colleagues, uncles, fathers and sons, and allow their voice to inspire change, to action change and to become a powerful catalyst for change within this country.”      She said forces had to be joined to combat senseless abuse and killing of innocent women and children. “Safeguarding communities is the number one priority in the Western Cape.” TCCs are one-stop facilities that have been introduced by the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, as a critical part of South Africa’s anti-rape strategy. They provide specialised victim support services that are intended to reduce the secondary trauma of assault. The centres provide a range of services for traumatised survivors such as medical examination, counselling and statement taking. Winde said that when men started treating women with respect and dignity “we will see abuse coming to an end over the last year, 5.6% of all murders in the province were due to domestic violence”. sisonke mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus