So far over 800 cases of listeriosis have been confirmed, according to the National Institute for Communicable Diseases. The head of the NICD’s Centre for Enteric Diseases, Dr Juno Thomas, said women who contract the disease run the risk of having a miscarriage, giving birth to a stillborn or having a baby with infections like listeriosis, pneumonia and meningitis, depending on the stage of pregnancy. “Of the 852 cases so far, over 40% are in newborn babies. This means that all those babies (were infected) when the mom got it in pregnancy. Babies born with listeriosis have a high mortality rate.” Thomas said women had to take extra precaution, and even if they were not feeling ill, if they showed some symptoms, they should consult a doctor. “Although we don’t know the food type that has caused the outbreak, what we do know from other outbreaks is that there are certain types of foods that are more commonly implicated, such as ready-to-eat processed meat, which includes viennas, polony and cold deli meats. "If pregnant women develop fever or flu-like symptoms, or a fever with diarrhoea, they must see a doctor even if they are feeling okay. In this case, even if they do not feel that ill, it can be a sign of listeriosis.” Listeriosis can be treated with antibiotics. Thomas was speaking as the country observes Pregnancy Awareness Week. Obstetrician Dr Howard Manyonga said more education around pregnancy was needed. “So much happens in the months before conception and during the 40-week gestation period which can affect your child’s mental and physical development for the rest of their life. Women should have tests as early as they can, certainly by 10-12 weeks into pregnancy, to pick up abnormalities and allow for patient education around key risks.” Manyonga said the biggest risk to unborn babies in South Africa was the consumption of alcohol and drugs during pregnancy. “Women should be aware that if they consume alcohol, are sexually active and not using contraception, they may fall pregnant and unknowingly expose their baby to its toxic effects at a very sensitive stage of development. Women who are already pregnant must avoid alcohol entirely.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus