Richard Walker, regional manager of Metrorail, said they were still busy with a safety plan that includes a concrete wall along stations. He spoke to the Cape Argus on the sidelines of a parliamentary briefing where they were to discuss plans to improve the rail service across the country. “We are still busy finalising our safety plan that we have agreed to with our stakeholders. We are in the final stages of our plan so that we can open the line to all our commuters in the Cape Flats area. I can’t give a date at this stage when the line will be open,” he said. RELATED: No movement on #Metrorail's Central line Walker also said they had a comprehensive plan to fix the infrastructure and signalling equipment of the ailing system. “We are busy with a modernisation plan to address train delays and problems with our signalling equipment. Our plan will tackle our challenges in respect of rolling stock and infrastructure. We are also busy with a plan to replace rotten wooden sleepers for better safety,” he said. Despite all their plans, Walker said the constant vandalism of their railways had placed massive pressure on their service. “We have criminals dressed in reflective bibs pretending to be engineers who steal our cables. We find these cables at scrap yards. One of our own technical staff was involved with criminal activities on the rail system and that person has been arrested. "Many other criminals were also arrested for their involvement in the stealing of cables,” he said. MPs in the portfolio committee on transport were fuming yesterday and ordered interim board members of SA’s Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to appear before it at 2pm after they failed to arrive for a meeting at 9.30am The interim board was expected to brief Parliament’s portfolio committee on transport on the country’s failing commuter rail services which have led to entire lines being affected, with tens of thousands of people being left stranded or late for work on a daily basis. The chairperson of the committee, Dikeledi Magadzi, said they were disgusted by Prasa’s conduct, as it was not the first time they had behaved in this manner. “This meeting with Prasa should have happened last week already, but the committee has had to reschedule because Prasa did not honour the meeting,” Magadzi said. “The service Prasa is rendering is meant to benefit the poor, and the cornerstone of that starts with being accountable to Parliament which apportions funding to the entities and Departments,” she said. The acting CEO for Prasa, Cromet Molepo, told the committee there was confusion with its invitation that reached Prasa only yesterday. He did not elaborate. Magadzi said even if there was confusion with the invitation, it was Prasa’s responsibility to find out what the committee wanted. Zachie Achmat, secretary of activist group #UniteBehind, said they were applying pressure on government to restore the rail service, which was failing because of corruption. @JasonFelix  jasonfelix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus