During her childhood,  Kgahlego Pitsi Kewana well known as “Pistis”, 31, was a child who lived all over the country. She was born in Polokwane but later moved to Venda with her grandmother until she turned 4, and then moved to Johannesburg to stay with her mother, who was still at medical school. Kewana stayed with her mom and her friends at a campus residence and being surrounded by a lot of women somehow influenced her love for fashion. “I think something about spending time with all these amazing black women, who were both glamorous and stylish, ignited the love for fashion early in my life,” says Kewana. Although her biological father died while she was very young, Kewana had an amazing childhood with her step-father, who treated her as her own child. “My biological father passed on when I was about a year old and my mom remarried when I was 5, thereafter we moved to Midrand where we stayed until I was 12. My father had an incredibly positive impact on my childhood. I remember a period when my mom had to work in Venda and he had to look after us alone, during that time he would push us to follow our passions. “My cousin and I were into beauty pageants, I designed the outfits and my dad made sure they got made well so we didn’t miss a single event,” Kewana adds. She and her parents then moved to Cape Town where she completed high school before enrolling for medicine at University of Cape Town. After graduating at UCT in 2010, she practised for four years, starting as an intern at a government hospital in Polokwane and then proceeded to do community service at Sebokeng, south of Johannesburg. During that time, Kewana wasn’t happy in medicine but didn’t have the courage  to follow her passion. She had always wanted to be a fashion designer but her parents encouraged her to do something more “academic” with the certainty of a job and financial security. She then chose medicine because she thought having doctors in her family would also make her love and enjoy medicine. Her love for fashion was then sparkled once again by Titanic, a 1997 romance movie. “I have always wanted to be a fashion designer. I remember watching Titanic when it first came out and being mesmerised by the dresses and gowns. It was like a light switched on inside me. “When I was younger, I used to play at making dresses for my dolls but after watching that movie I then started sketching. I produced design after design, and before I knew it, I became the go-to person for fashion advice in my family,” Kewana says. She also realised that all the illness being treated at hospitals by doctors could be prevented if people had better housing, sanitation, nutrition, education and safety, things which she started to notice could be managed by people having jobs. “It registered that by having a thriving fashion label I could provide jobs, and possibly have more impact in helping people by giving them something that could help them better their lives. That’s when I finally racked up the courage to follow my first love. I quit my job, enrolled in fashion school  and haven’t looked back since,” says Kewana. Last year, she launched her brand which is called DOCTORED. It specialises in high-end ready-to-wear garments for the fashion forward professionals. “I love pattern-making, and I infuse that thinking into the brand. With every item I’m always thinking of ways to push the boundaries and create something that is both wearable and unique. “Our focus is on womenswear, creating garments that can be worn to the office and out on the town. The name DOCTORED speaks to that idea of ‘doctoring’ something up - creating something new that is uniquely engineered, innovative and creative,” Kewana adds. She further explains that she loves designing because it allows her to carry out her purpose with passion. “I love the artistic aspect of fashion, that an item of clothing can share a story, and is in itself a story - weaved by everyone involved in making the piece come to life. “I also think what I love most is the number of people whose lives can be touched by an idea: from the designer, to textile weaver, to the pattern maker, to seamstress, to the shop assistant, retailer  and, finally, the person who wears it. It gives me joy to know that by doing something I enjoy I have the potential to have an impact on so many people’s lives,” says Kewana. Simply  because of creating clothes for authentic women who resonate  a need within themselves, Kewana’s aim is not to be different but to be real. She is inspired by Clive Rundle’s focus on creating really interesting garments through  experimenting and playing with pattern making. She’s also a fan of Loza Maleombho’s work, who uses traditional references yet communicates them in an incredibly contemporary and unique way, as well as Thom Browne with his ability to  stretch and mould tailored designs into incredible pieces while still keeping that tailored theme to the core. Kewana has a goal of getting more space to accommodate  new designers and give them a platform  to grow and have a business that has a real positive impact on society. Her award winning graduation collection is currently available. Follow @doctored_by_her on Instagram to keep in touch with what's coming next. Cape Argus