What looked like small reddish marks on her skin soon turned into such a big swollen bruise that she had to be rushed to a family doctor, who referred her to a specialist. The latter diagnosed the then 20-month-old Lounique with leukaemia. “The news was such a big blow to the family. None of us even suspected that the bruising on her skin was cancer. Everything happened so fast. We were at my brother’s strawberry farm in Malmesbury when we realised that the bruising could be more serious,” Lounique’s mother, Angelique Carstens, said. After being put on a course of strong antibiotics for what the family doctor suspected was meningitis, Lounique’s bruising worsened, and it was after this that she was referred to a paediatrician. She had to start chemotherapy at Tygerberg Hospital immediately. This saw her weight dropping from 11kg to 7kg within a few months.  “She lost all her hair and constantly vomited because of chemotherapy. As a parent having a child with cancer can be so difficult and emotionally draining you feel so helpless because whatever you do nothing seems to help,” she said. She thanked the Childhood Cancer Foundation SA (Choc) - an NGO that provides comprehensive support to children with cancer and life-threatening blood disorders - and their families. “Because I stayed so far away from home we had to stay in one of Choc homes at Tygerberg Hospital, where we received such amazing support that helped us as a family to deal with Lounique’s diagnosis.” Lounique’s story, which turned from despair into triumph after she went into remission a year ago, is receiving attention today, 15 February 102018, as the day is recognised as International Childhood Cancer Day. It is used to highlight the need for concerted global actions to address the growing challenge posed by this non-communicable disease. Globally, childhood and adolescent cancer is threatening to overtake infectious diseases as one of the highest causes of mortality in children. Globally, more than 300000 children are diagnosed with cancer each year, about 1000 in South Africa. To raise awareness about childhood cancer, South African health experts, activists and local celebrities such as TV personality Jessica Nkosi and actress Phumeza Mdabe are using this month to call on South Africans to have “A Heart for Children with Cancer”. Mdabe’s youngest son, Mpilo, who was diagnosed with bilateral retinoblastoma (cancer of the eye) three years ago, has gone into remission following the removal of his eye. Choc spokesperson Zelda Jacobs said childhood cancer remained one of the most challenging diseases to treat. She said that in South Africa the cure rate was only 55%, partly due to a lack of knowledge about the disease. “Choc aims to improve this rate by creating awareness of childhood cancer symptoms. Early detection of childhood cancer affords early diagnosis, enabling a better chance of being cured and an increase in the survival rate,” she said. Choc is calling on schools, corporates and community groups to wear blue with their trendy “have a heart for children with cancer badge or heart pin in an effort to spread the message of childhood cancer awareness”. Jacobs said early detection can dramatically change survival rates with cancers diagnosed early enough likely to be treated successfully. Some of the symptoms of childhood cancer include:    siphokazi.fokazi@inl.co.za  Cape Argus