Lamoer and his co-accused had previously pleaded not guilty to 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering involving R1.6m. On Thursday he and brigadiers Darius van der Ross and Colin Govender made an about-turn. Lamoer, defending himself in the Western Cape High Court, admitted receiving money from Dawjee from December 2011 to September 2013. “I accordingly admit that I wrongfully/unlawfully and intentionally gave a letter of good standing to accused number one (referring to Dawjee) for the benefit of the accused. “I admit that my intention to commit the crime was dolus eventualis as when I gave the aforesaid a letter of good standing I foresaw as a possibility that such letter would play a role as prescribed” Van der Ross followed suit. He said that for three months he used the petrol account of Dawjee’s businesses to fill up his car, with the permission of Dawjee. He used the card on five occasions amounting to R3324.60. “I filled my personal vehicle with petrol to the value mentioned above. Accused one also sponsored me for a police golf event in the amount of R4000 in April 2012. That sponsorship was declared and made known to the SAPS in the prescribed manner,” Van der Ross stated. Govender in his plea said that Dawjee was a relative. “Mohamed Salim Dawjee and I are cousins. I have known him for most of my life. Our families are supporting each other when the need arises from time to time with loans and business arrangements. We go on holidays together and are the closest of house friends,” he said. He further admitted to receiving bribes for close to two years, starting from November 2011. Govender first received an amount of R24 601.44 and then received pool maintenance amounting to R5 770, car rental for R14 554.97, petrol expenses worth R726.47 and two flight tickets costing R3 543. State prosecutor Billy Downer asked that the court acquit the three on the remaining charges, but Judge Rosheni Allie said she would consider after evaluating evidence led in court and the pleas. Dawjee’s defence said they were still in plea negotiations with the State. Advocate William King SC said he would send the prosecutor the proposed plea today, which they could work on. Defence advocate Johnny Nortje requested a separate trial for Govender’s wife, Brigadier Sharon Govender, but it was denied.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus