Ukhanyo Monakali is one of 4 880 pupils still waiting to be placed at a school by the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) and, according to her mother, Phumza Monakali, one of the main reasons her daughter has not been placed is because of racial discrimination. Monakali, who lives in Gugulethu, said that her daughter - who completed Grade 7 at Pinelands Primary School - was promised that pupils at the school would receive preference when it came to being granted places at Pinelands High School. However, this has not been not the case. “They did not give me a reason as to why she wasn’t accepted. They invited us for the open day and said Pinelands Primary feeds into Pinelands High but this didn’t happen. “Only black kids are sitting with this problem. The department wants to send her to ID Mkize High School or Gugulethu Comprehensive. Look at the foundation she has. I live in Gugulethu, but I can afford a school in Pinelands. Why can’t she go there?” asked Monakali. She was not the only one who accused the department of prejudice. Ndumisa Mbaliswana, of Protea Heights in Brackenfell, said he had also been trying to find a school for his daughter, as travelling to Claremont Primary had became a problem. “I tried to find a school closer for my child and I applied in September, January and when applications opened at Bastion Primary and Brackenfell Primary schools. They look at your address and say that they don’t have space for you. “No one looking for a school is white... They suggested that I take my daughter to Northpine Primary. If I (do so) I'll be without a job because I'll arrive late every morning. There is no transport from Brackenfell to Northpine,” said Mbaliswana. WCED spokesperson Millicent Merton said the department did not determine “feeder zones” to schools and that  school governing bodies determined admission policies, in line with the constitution. “Officials are advising parents to accept places offered to them," she said. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus 