Duarte visited the kramat for inspiration and healing, she said, at a time when the ANC has to wrestle back control of the Western Cape and Johannesburg. Duarte added that ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa was leading the conversation with President Jacob Zuma regarding his resignation as head of state.    “We are in discussion with President Zuma; it will take the time that it needs. We all realise it’s urgent, we’re working on it fairly urgently. It’s complex because it's not about an individual, it's about the country and the ANC. “We know that it's going to be difficult, we already feel that our freedom could be ripped out from under our feet. We didn't put our shoulder to the wheel and give people the confidence that they needed to give the ANC another chance, to make sure that the lives of the people are better.” ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said the party had made mistakes in the past, but hopes to unite and renew itself. He said that visiting Sheik Yusuf’s burial ground and meeting with the Muslim community was fitting as the party reconnects with its past. “He is the first Muslim who brought the religion here and he is also a fighter against injustices. The ANC draws hope from his legacy. This is part of renewing and remembering leaders,” said Jacobs. Deputy president of the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC), Moulana Khalik Allie, said  the council was grateful to the ANC for visiting the site as it remains a beacon of hope for South Africa. Allie said that Sheik Yusuf fought for justice and was an inspiration to all.    Local historian and resident, Nazem Braaf, said Sheik Yusuf  is regarded as the founder of Islam in South Africa, as he spread the religion through his communication with slaves on surrounding farms. “A philanthropist from India came here and identified this; he was so impressed with this man in the 1800s that he acquired this piece of land and left it in trust for preservation by descendants." said Braaf. “Every year, the Imam has a gathering, commemorating this man who was a freedom fighter. Today Macassar is the name given, from the area where he came from, Makassar. This stands as a symbol of oppression.” @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus