This was the argument of advocate Renata Williams, SC, who was representing the Minister of Police in his legal dispute with the Social Justice Coalition, Equal Education and the Nyanga Community Police Forum over the allocation of police resources. The civil rights groups had recently told the Western Cape High Court that the police’s system of allocating resources, Theoretical Human Resource Requirement (THRR), was discriminatory on the grounds of race or poverty. Their lawyers argued that the SAPS was not lawfully permitted to allocate its human resources in a manner that resulted in poor, black communities being systematically under-resourced in comparison with rich, white communities. In addition, their lawyers argued that results of the allocation process may also not be irrational that they should respond to actual crime rates, and must allocate more resources to the policing of more serious crimes. In a reply, Williams said police could not only focus on the population and murder rate to determine the number of police officers that were allocated to certain areas. “Police do not police people, they police crime. The fact that the population may consist of 20 000 people doesn’t 
mean there will be 20 000 opportunities to commit crime or 20 000 criminals,” she said. Williams went in deeper, analysing an affidavit by Jean Redpath, a researcher at the University of the Western Cape’s Dullah Omar Institution. “Redpath looks at murders and ignores other crimes. Saying murder is the best indicator of crime is wrong. “Why should one crime trump all the others? SAPS mandate is to police all crimes; they can’t turn around and say sorry, we don’t do robberies or crimen injuria or domestic violence,” she said. Williams said police looked at a multiplicity of factors; including the area and contingency adjustments for the number of unreported crimes. “One can’t account for the unreported crimes, which remain a challenge. It is difficult to determine allocation from unreported cases. We have to accommodate this in the THRR,” she said. Williams told the court that Cape Town police station had more police and more crimes. These, however, were not contact crimes and the increase in police was due to support staff needed in the courts and Parliament. The advocate said that when additional police were allocated in the Western Cape in 2016, both Nyanga and Cape Town police stations received an 41 additional officers. She added that 20 of the recommendations made by the Khayelitsha Commission in 2014 have been implemented and some are in progress. The matter continues on Thursday.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus