By making use of the latest  rain-enhancing technology, Water Analytical Services (WAS) wants to use cloud seeding to increase precipitation. Cloud seeding is a process of applying chemicals such as dry ice or silver iodide to clouds to stimulate precipitation, thereby creating rainfall. This is done by creating ice crystals from cloud droplets in a super-cooled state. The chemicals are dispersed using light aircraft fitted with flares that distribute the chemicals over clouds. The cloud droplets react with the chemical and form ice crystals that are too heavy to stay suspended in the air; they then melt and fall, creating rain. “At its essence, this process alters the microphysical processes within the cloud,” said Franco van der Merwe, WAS’s managing director. “This process has been used all over the world for decades now and we believe that South Africa can benefit from using this technology to enhance rainfall where it is needed most. “Cloud seeding has numerous applications in the agriculture, events and tourism industries, and is used by governments as a means of securing water security in drought stricken areas. “South Africa has experimented with cloud seeding but with the current drought crisis affecting the Cape region, now may be the time to revisit this technology. “Whether it is used for encouraging rainfall in areas affected by the drought, or helping farmers in other parts of the country ensure rainfall for their crops, cloud seeding has clear benefits.” There are several examples backing up the effectiveness of cloud seeding worldwide. A team of scientists from the National Centre for Atmospheric Research spent three years seeding clouds in the drought-stricken northern Mexican state of Coahuila. They found that rainfall from seeded clouds lasted longer than rain from unseeded clouds, the rainfall covered a larger area, and that the total precipitation was higher - sometimes even doubled. In many cases, they reported that results began just 20 minutes after the seeding. According to Van der Merwe, cloud seeding has potential beyond creating rain: “The usual intent is to increase precipitation, but cloud seeding technology also has advantages for weather regulation and curbing pollution.” Practical examples are evident in hail and fog suppression - achieved with cloud seeding - that is widely practised at airports. Major events have also benefited from this technology. At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, officials used cloud seeding to ensure that it rained before and not on the night of the opening ceremony - and throughout the event from there to secure favourable weather conditions for the games. Last year, cloud seeding was used in Dubai and it received 30% more rain. The practice has been used on an ongoing basis ever since, 
with positive results, and the team responsible has been recognised for their ground-breaking work last month when 
it received an award from the UAE Research Programme for Rain Enhancement Science. In spite of the potential of the technology, there are several concerns regarding the measured success and the safety of cloud seeding. Van der Merwe is keen to dispel this apprehension, pointing out that more than 50 years of research has led to what cloud seeding is today.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus