The vessel, which is the South African Maritime Safety Authority's (Samsa's) dedicated training ship, sailed via Mauritius to the Antarctica on November 24, carrying 20 cadets who were enrolled at various institutions pursuing maritime studies. However, the excited but anxious cadets who arrived back in South Africa on Friday said they had an experience of a lifetime, one which changed their lives. The expressions on their faces, though, as they finally docked, spelt joy and relief. Their lives had changed, they said. Given that many were afraid of the ocean, they were now proud to say they had “walked on the Antarctic ice”. The cadets - seven women and 13 men - said they welcomed the opportunity to be a part of the expedition. The SA Agulhas, now in the Port of Port Elizabeth, was chartered by an Indian team of scientists who boarded the ship at Port Louis in Mauritius. During the journey to the “end of the earth”, as the cadets described it, they engaged in unique maritime training sessions, with the added bonus of meeting new people from all over the world. Roland Shortt, Samsa's operations manager for maritime special projects, said the journey aboard the SA Agulhas was an exceptional experience. Highlighting how crucial it was to keep the SA Agulhas at sea, he explained how the role of the training vessel served to enhance maritime training and also contributed to the development of the "Oceans economy". “There is a dedicated cadet training programme on board where they receive direct training as if they were in a classroom. They have dedicated training officers whose sole purpose is to groom, mentor and train the cadets. "Their training involves many tasks, including bridge watch keeping (navigation), passage spanning, and astronavigation. They also get to be trained in the engineering of the ship. This exposes them to training on maintenance of the ship's power plant,” said Shortt. Bravery and courage were some of the traits Saluse Tsengiwe, 20, from Cape Town says he acquired from the expedition. The experience was initially exciting, but became sad, depressing and tough. And then it became exciting again when they were told they were coming home, he said. “I was excited to be part of the expedition, then reality set in as I faced a life without everything I am used to. I adjusted my mind to reach my goal, gained experience and became excited again. “I became ecstatic when we were told that we are heading back home, but the journey continues for us as our training will continue with other examinations.” Tsengiwe is a beneficiary of the Samsa Bursary Fund. He pursued his maritime studies in navigation at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology after matriculating from Simon's Town Maritime High School. “We were excited about being on international waters, going to Mauritius and then to the South Pole. We didn't anticipate the reality of the expedition. The rough waters were tough for me. But I told myself that I'd endure the challenges and enjoy the experiences that came with them. We also got to see different continents, which were breathtaking.” Tsengiwe said one of his reasons for becoming part of the maritime industry was to explore different parts of the world. Shortt said the scientific team carried out a lot of different areas of research, ranging from atmospheric research which entailed taking air samples and releasing atmospheric balloons. More research was conducted in the water, testing water samples for salinity, temperature, and density. Short said once the vessel reached the ice in Antarctica, other research activities took place.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus