CAPE TOWN - Travelling home after work has now become a daily struggle for Cape Flats passengers, causing chaos at Golden Arrow Bus operations in Cape Town. The massive labour force from the Cape Flats region was left with no choice but to take buses or taxis since the Central Line route was suspended early in January. This was due to Metrorail's infrastructure problem, vandalism, and violence, in which a security guard was shot dead in Khayelitsha train station in January 2018. Watch: Cape Town bus terminus  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Golden Arrow had initially agreed with Metrorail to transport train users who had valid monthly and weekly (only at off-peak hours) tickets, while the Central Line is suspended. Also read: Eskom decides to rely on the outcome of Koko disciplinary hearing Golden Arrow spokesperson, Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said the agreement between the two parties is no longer in place and as a result commuters have to now buy bus tickets. "We have seen a major increase in passengers on Central Line routes. Golden Arrow is operating at capacity during peak and the influx of Metrorail passengers placed a strain on our operations during peak hours. We have had requests to add more buses on certain routes but unfortunately we simply do not have any extra buses," Dyke-Beyer said. Frustrated commuters are bound to be aggressive and forceful in order for them to board the ill-managed passenger queues. Metrorail train users are still clueless as to when their reliable transport will be back on track. The regional manager for Metrorail, Richard Walker said their priority is getting the Central Line back up and running. Also read: M&R boss: We’ll give Cape Town 30m litres of water a day in 20 weeks Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott has confirmed that while the central service is suspended, stations are closed on the Bishop Lavis; Chris Hani and Kapteinsklip routes. "No tickets will be sold whatsoever and commuters are requested to utilise their cash to find alternative modes of transport." This non-functional route has also badly affected the regular taxi passengers. The taxi industry is now experiencing longer passenger queues and as a result, are finding it difficult to control them. Top story: REVEALED: Guptas will deny, deny, deny at #StateCapture inquiry -BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 