Since the contracts will be in place for longer than three years, the TDA had to obtain Council’s approval before the signing of the contracts could go ahead. "Together, the seven contracts amount to approximately R72,9 million. Once signed, multi-disciplinary teams will oversee the planning, design, and construction of 15 664 housing opportunities across Cape Town," said MayCo Member for Transport and Urban Development, Brett Herron. "The housing developments will be situated in Vlakteplaas in Strand; Blueberry Hill in Blue Downs; ACSA Symphony in Delft; Pelican Park; Mahama in Khayelitsha; Elsies River; and Bonteheuwel. The housing opportunities will become available within the next two to three years, depending on the type of development and the area where the development is taking place." The teams will also be responsible for the statutory land use applications and the environmental processes that will precede the housing developments. Herrod added: "At this stage we foresee that the developments will include site-and-serviced erven, double-storey units, double- and single-story semi-detached units, as well as double- and single-storey free-standing units. Where possible, the developments will include community facilities, open spaces where residents can socialise, and commercial and retail opportunities. "Thus, we are striving to create integrated and sustainable communities as far as possible so that the beneficiaries of these projects can have access to social amenities, work opportunities, and public transport." The contracts are funded from the Urban Settlements Development Grant, as well as the Housing Development Capital Fund. The purpose of these funds is to expedite the delivery of housing opportunities by making funding available for specialist services that municipalities may need. "I am grateful that Council approved these contracts," he further said. "The demand for decent housing in Cape Town is acute, and is arguably one of the biggest challenges this administration is facing. We have to use all of the tools at our disposal to speed up delivery – be it from using longer-term contracts to ensure quality control to identifying well-located land for inclusionary and affordable housing."  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus