The event was an opportunity for the City to hand over 16 wheelchairs to beneficiaries from Delft. "These local community organisations play an important role in our efforts to build a caring city. I commend and thank them for their work as they recognise the importance of serving the community but especially empowering those with disabilities," De Lille said. "These residents will now have greater mobility and will be empowered to do more for themselves. "Each year the City donates wheelchairs to residents in need. Last year a total of 83 wheelchairs were given to beneficiaries across the city." De Lilled added that the City’s Social Development Department offers a range of programmes and support services to assist vulnerable groups and senior citizens such as home-based care and recreational activities. Delft ward councillors host regular programmes with organisations in the area who provide assistance to and care for vulnerable groups. "Some of the outstanding work is led by the Delft Disability Forum which was formed by Epilepsy South Africa and is coordinated by social worker Jaydene Basson in collaboration with Councillor Michelle Adonis," the mayor said. "The forum’s main objective is to provide projects in the community which maintain and enhance both individual and collective wellbeing. To achieve these objectives, the forum meets on a weekly basis at The Hague Recreational Centre to plan and implement various activities such as recreational afternoons, self-help groups, capacity-building workshops, and to provide economic and educational opportunities as well as family support. "The Delft Disability Forum was launched in September last year when various role-players came together including Epilepsy South Africa, the City’s Recreation and Parks department, the Department of Social Development, the Masithembele Centre, Quad Para Association Western Cape, African Legend, the Oasis Day Centre, Roosendal Special School and the Delft Community Health Centre." The mayor added that all of these combined efforts are making a positive impact in the lives of the vulnerable residents who are often forgotten and who do not always have access to tools to help them lead a normal life. "I thank all the councillors and community groups for their hard work and passion for people with disabilities. Their commitment is to be commended and is of great value to the beneficiaries and the City’s collective efforts to build a caring city," she said. "There are many other heroes and excellent community groups across Cape Town and I want to thank them as well for the great work they do to uplift our communities."  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus