As the Central line entered its third week since it was closed, Codeta’s spokesperson, Andile Khanyi, said they have seen long queues which are beyond their control. “The closure of the line is hitting us hard. We have seen scuffles, and regular taxi commuters were complaining about being late for work. There is also increased traffic congestion, especially on Mondays and Thursdays. So we cannot say we are happy. We are getting more money, but commuters and drivers are unhappy," Khanyi said. The central line has been out of action following the murder of a security guard in Khayelitsha and ongoing vandalism in Nyanga and Bonteheuwel, and after a test train derailed, proving that the line was not safe yet. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said she could not say when the line would be operational. “We understand the frustration as this has affected thousands of commuters. Commuters travelling from Khayelitsha, Kapteinsklip and Bishop Lavis have been advised to continue using alternative transport. “Commuters who had a monthly ticket can buy a monthly ticket at any station. So that they continue using Golden Arrow Bus Services during off-peak hours, which fall between 8.30am and 4pm and again after 6.30pm,” Scott said. Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker said at least 10 people had been arrested for cable theft since the beginning of the year. "Metrorail Protection Services on the Cape Flats nabbed a suspect in Elsies River, while three others were arrested in Bonteheuwel for the possession of stolen cabling." Last week, six suspected cable thieves were arrested in Bishop Lavis and Bonteheuwel, Walker said. Over the weekend, police also arrested a 33-year-old Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) technician in Khayelitsha after he was found with stolen rail infrastructure. Walker said the trend was worrying but he applauded surrounding communities, who were asked to continue assisting police. Law Enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said the Copperhead unit picked up hot spots for metal theft and illegal traders which were mostly on the central line. Most arrests were in Bonteheuwel, Bishop Lavis and Netreg. Theft and illegal traders were also seen in areas such as Khayelitsha, Mitchells Plain, Ocean View, Muizenberg and Kraaifontein, Dyason said.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus