With Valentine's Day next week, here are 5 romantic spots to visit with your other half: A movie under the stars Those who often reminisce about visiting the old-school drive-in during the good old days certainly don’t want to miss this. While Galileo open air cinemas are dotted all around Cape Town, and run almost every day of the week, a special Valentine’s Day screening will be held at Nooitgedacht Wine Estate. This venue has become one of the most popular ways to spend a romantic night out in Cape Town. Weather-wise, February in the Mother City is almost always perfect and Nooitgedacht are pulling out all the stops for all you hopeless romantics. The price includes the screening of Valentine’s Day (how apt!), a backrest, a cosy blanket, a refreshing welcome drink, plus a heart-shaped lollipop to enjoy during the film. Dinner and a show at Stardust Diner Where: 118 Sir Lowry Road, Woodstock, Cape Town Contact: 021 462 7777  or visit www.stardustcapetown.com Stardust Diner, as most locals in the know will tell you, is the home of the singing waiter and the most heavenly bread bowl salad on planet Earth. Aside from attending to your every need during your delicious meal, your waiter or waitress will take to the stage from 8pm to wow the crowd with pure talent. Sometimes they start singing right where they are standing, which lends for a great surprise. Dancing on your table is not only common, but encouraged. Which is why a night of fabulous entertainment with these theatre stars is an experience you definitely want to share with your sweetheart. Think heart-wrenching Adele ballads and classic musical numbers that you know word-for-word. An evening at Stardust Diner is sure to be a night to remember. Jazz vibes at the Piano Bar Where: 47 Napier Street, De Waterkant, Cape Town Contact 021 418 1096  or visit www.thepianobar.co.za If you and your ‘lovey’ enjoy the smooth sounds of local jazz while you wine and dine, the Piano Bar in De Waterkant is the ultimate treat this Valentine’s Day. This year, the Piano Bar will treat you and your Valentine to a delectable 3-course meal, including a starter platter of salmon, risotto and other treats, cannelloni or beef fillet mains and a surprise dessert. Your mouth-watering meal will be paired with a delicious glass of Prosecco. Open from 6pm until late, you can simply slow down and enjoy an atmosphere second to none. Picnicking at Boschendal Estate Where: Pniel Road, Groot Drakenstein, Franschhoek Contact: 021 870 4274 or visit www.boschendal.com/eat-and-drink/picnics A lazy picnic in the winelands is the epitome of romance. Why not try a picnic at Boschendal Wine Estate with your significant other? Their delicious, organic picnic baskets are filled to bursting with homemade preserves and sauces, fresh baguettes, a whole roast chicken, garden salads, cheeses and homemade organic ice-cream. Grab your basket, some plush complimentary beanbags or cosy lawn chairs and pick a shady, secluded spot on the rolling lawns. After tucking into your sumptuous picnic, kick back and while the afternoon away in absolute bliss. A romantic day at Eden on the Bay Where: Cnr Sir David Baird & Otto du Plessis Drive, Big Bay, Bloubergstrand Contact: www.edenonthebaymall.co.za Boasting one of Cape Town’s best views of Table Mountain, Eden on the Bay is a firm favourite Valentine’s Day destination for locals every year (and all year round, for that matter). Here you will find romantic activities to suit every personality: 1. ‘Waffle’ over waffles at the Big Bay Waffle Company 2. Enjoy a sunset SUP with your squeeze at Cabrinha 3. Relaxing traditional couples massages at Aiyara Thai Spa 4. Intimate dinners at one of their top restaurants, including Moyo, Eden Café and Primi With options like that, your Valentine’s Day is sure to be one for the books.