Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Senzeni Zokwana announced that he had accepted an appeal by Irvin & Johnson Ltd (I&J) and had decided to give the company the rights. “Irvin & Johnson Ltd is allocated 13.4% of the Patagonian Toothfish total allowable catch. Accordingly, a total of five fishing rights have now been allocated in this fishery and two vessels are authorised to exploit the South African catch allowance,” he said. In 2016 I & J were refused fishing rights by the Deputy Director-General, Fisheries Management and only four companies were given rights. They are valid for 15 years. “Patagonian Toothfish fishery is an extremely capital intensive, high risk offshore fishery that targets toothfish in the waters around  Prince Edward Island,” said Zokwana. But Pedro Garcia of the South African United Fishing Front said the department was not acting in accordance with the constitution.  It was not promoting food security and job creation for local fisherfolk. “I don’t think they are serious about transformation. Our people are entitled to have access to offshore rights so that they too can benefit. Somewhere along the line there has to be a balance between the industrial sector and fishing communities,” said Garcia. He said although local fisherfolk did not have the resources for offshore, they could have benefited by having the rights. “The situation is dire; it’s deteriorating as people are suffering. People living on the West Coast have no alternative apart from fishing to make an income. Fishing is what they know and that is being taken away from them,” he said. Linda Moss of the ANC Fishing Desk said local fishermen were suffering because they could not afford  lawyers and take this issue to court. “We had discussions with the minister that fisherfolk feel excluded. Big companies think the industry belongs to them. Fishing rights belong to the state. “The state should do the right thing and look at those who are packing the fish; consider the livelihood of those in fishing communities,” she said. She called for other departments to assist in upskilling and training fisherfolk so that they too can compete with the big companies.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus