On Wednesday, Zokwana announced that he was deliberating on 14 appeals relating to the Patagonian toothfish sector, while he would make a decision on other appeals including the horse mackerel and hake inshore trawl at the end of this month. The appeals are based on fishing rights and quotas. On July 14, Zokwana made a decision on the 91 appeals filed by applicants for hake inshore trawl fishing rights. The decision was issued after the Western Cape High Court ruled in favour of the delegated authority and the methodology of allocating fishing rights in the hake inshore trawl sector. However, the minister’s decision was taken up for judicial review by Boloko Trading and Investments (Pty) Ltd and Hacky Fishing (Pty) Ltd. Zokwana’s spokesperson, Bomikazi Molapo, said: “These matters are tentatively set down for February 2018. However, the minister is exploring alternative remedies to swiftly resolve the appeals within hake inshore trawl without litigation.” Molapo said Zokwana would be issuing an update on progress made in resolving the review applications. “It is the minister’s intention to issue the final decisions in hake inshore trawl before the end of February 2018, should the judicial review applications be resolved on an expedited basis,” she said. Molapo added that the horse mackerel appeal can only be finalised once the hake inshore trawl appeal is concluded. South African United Fishing Front (SAUFF) spokesperson Pedro Garcia said they hoped that Zokwana’s decision would benefit the local fisherfolk communities. “We are calling for communities to have offshore rights. The current small-scale policy that exists doesn’t have necessary resources to make it economically viable. “Big fishing companies have access to offshore rights but don’t have the equipment, capacity and experience. They subcontract the fisherfolk to do the work. It is unfair. Why not offer those rights to the people used for subcontracting instead?” he said. Garcia said income from offshore could supplement the small-scale fishing policy where more training and development could be offered to community fisherfolk so that they are able to grow their own businesses.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus