In a lengthy review document, Magaxa was reflecting on the state of the party in the Western Cape and admitted to the serious challenges the party faces. He said the ANC must develop a programme to challenge the DA’s hegemony. “Not merely through the rhetoric in councils and in the Western Cape Legislature, but through taking up the daily challenges faced by the poor and marginalised. "The ANC in the province must identify a few key pillars for campaigning - land, housing, health or employment, and see these campaigns through to their logical conclusion. "The ANC, as it stands, is merely trying to do everything at once yet achieving very little in substantive results,” Magaxa said. Speaking about factions, he said groups were using any available opportunity to fight and outmanoeuvre the dominant faction. “This has been the case for more than 10 years now without any efforts to reclaim political power that we have lost to DA due to our factional fights. National leadership from Comrade Thabo Mbeki’s era could not provide any suitable leadership intervention with the aim to rescue the situation, but rather deepen and swim with the incumbent faction to sustain their own personal leadership roles,” he said. “I would use this political overview to open this discussion from within this PEC (provincial executive committee) by bringing three names we need to take into consideration in our endeavour to reposition the ANC in the Western Cape. The three comrades are Ebrahim Rasool, Tasneem Essop, Shaun Byneveldt. Also others.” On the current water crisis, Magaxa said the party, at all levels, should take the lead. “Let us remember that it will be the poor, the indigent, the factory and farm workers that suffer the most when we reach this so-called 'Day Zero'. "Why don’t we convene a Water Imbizo? We can invite academics, professionals and hydrologists from UWC, Stellenbosch or UCT to provide alternatives and start a discussion on resolving this crisis." Magaxa also said the national leadership of the ANC should treat the Western Cape as an ordinary province if it was serious about rebuilding and renewal of the ANC. “We need to reclaim lost ground in metros and push back reactionary forces that continue to threaten the national democratic revolution. "The Western Cape remains the most important province for the ANC towards nation-building, including creating a non-racial South African society,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus