This while the Cape Chamber of Commerce also called for a VAT exemption on some canned foods. Gigaba tabled his Budget in Parliament on Wednesday, saying pensions would increase to R1 690. The child support grant would increase from R380 to R400. VAT also went from 14% to 15%. Some R3.8 billion is being budgeted for basic education. All the increases will come in to effect on April 1. Concordia Paulsen, 32, from Manenberg, who receives a child support grant, said: “I was shocked when I heard the child support grant was only going up by R20. It is not enough. “You cannot raise children on this little money. I have an eight-year-old child who attends school. “With this money you have to buy food and also pay school fees. I am just glad that the education budget is more. Education is very important for our children.” Geraldine Jacobs, 51, also from Manenberg, added she was not happy with the VAT increase. “Everything and especially food is already expensive,” she said. Meisie Mallo, 60, said she was happy with the R90 increase in the pension. “I only wish they would make the public transport cheaper for pensioners. As old people we struggle to travel because public transport is expensive. Allie Petersen, 60, from Bonteheuwel, added: “The R90 is okay, but they could have increased it by R100. That would have been a bit better.” Iris Solomons, 67, who travels from Khayelitsha to Cape Town every day, said that when the petrol price increased, so did the price of bus tickets. “I have three children who attend school in Cape Town, so our travelling fees are very expensive. Then there is also the high cost of food,” she said. Cape Chamber of Commerce president Janine Myburgh said the increase in VAT was not unexpected. “Our VAT rates are low by international standards, but very difficult to increase because of strong opposition from trade unions and others. “However we are in a crisis situation and still in danger of a credit downgrade. “The zero rating of basic foods and an increase in social grants would cushion the blow for the poor, but the chamber would like some basic canned foods exempted from VAT, as the poor don’t have fridges and they are forced to rely on canned goods,” she said.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus