Ward 53 councillor Brian Watkyns said the dangerous behaviour of taxi drivers on the roads was unacceptable. Watkyns shared his concern about lawless taxis on social media and said blitzes by the taxi unit to combat bad behaviour on the road had not alleviated the problem. He said suggestions made to the City to develop a MyCiTi route had been met with no commitment. “The dangerous behaviour of most of the drivers is unacceptable. I am calling a round table meeting with the taxi unit and residents. I previously established a Pinelands public transport committee and we made some progress with taxis at Howard Centre at the time but the committee ceased after about a year due to lack of interest. “I and the premier have been pushing the City to introduce the MyCiTi bus before the Conradie Development is completed. So far no commitment from the City,” said Watkyns. SA National Taxi Council secretary-general Mzoxolo Gibela said there was no alternative to the transport service for commuters coming from Khayelitsha or Gugulethu who needed to get to work in Pinelands. He said taxis were the only mode of transport available to workers.“Is he going to provide domestic workers with transport? What does he propose? At the end of the day people must be helped, but taxis shouldn’t transgress the law while doing it,” said Gibela. Cape Town Traffic Services spokesperson, Maxine Bezuidenhout, said officials from the transport authority engaged with the taxi industry towards the end of last year regarding filling the gap left by trains which were inoperable. Bezuidenhout said trains, which previously assisted 54% of commuters, now only assist 30% of commuters, who needed an alternative. However, Bezuidenhout said a MyCiTi route was not on the cards for the area and would only be considered in the future. “The roll-out of Phase 2A of the MyCiTi service takes priority in the short-term. The City could consider rolling out the service to other areas across Cape Town, should we receive more funding from the National Treasury. “Our public transport planning - which is not confined to MyCiTi services - can and will respond to changing needs in our city including a new development such as Conradie. Other road-based public transport services can be provided such as Golden Arrow buses,” said Bezuidenhout. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus