The national government was also officially taking over the water crisis in the Western, Eastern and Northern Cape. Its inter-ministerial task team met on the drought and water scarcity on Thursday and announced a process to declare a national drought disaster that could would be finalised before Wednesday. “Currently, efforts are under way to classify the drought as a national disaster,” Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Des van Rooyen said. “This process will be finalised on or before February 14. This will legally assign the responsibility to the national executive to co-ordinate the disaster, while a declaration is being considered to be finalised within a period of a month. “The declaration will empower the minister or his delegate to issue regulations and/or directives in dealing with the drought disaster. We are convinced that this will enhance current measures to deal with the disaster. It will also ensure that provinces, which are not currently declared, can be covered through measures to prevent and mitigate against the drought situation.” Van Rooyen said the drought was having a “profound negative impact” on the economies of provinces affected. “Government can therefore not sit idle while the situation deteriorates.” Senzeni Zokwana, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, said farming would be prioritised. “We need to protect our farmers because we depend on them for food security.” Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane said agriculture owned most of the country’s dams. “They built their own dams. We own about 323 dams while municipalities own 318 dams across the country. Dams are also owned by other government departments as well as the mining sector,” she said. Mokonyane asked political parties to refrain from communicating their own messages and warned against those who had no mandate to speak on the water crisis. “We have a national minister of water and sanitation. We have a minister of agriculture and a minister of co-operative governance. We are the leaders in this crisis together with the MECs and mayors from affected municipalities and provincial governments,” she said. Mokonyane was indirectly referring to DA leader Mmusi Maimane who had taken over the communications role on the water crisis in Cape Town. Maimane’s spokesperson Portia Adams said the DA would be unapologetic for their efforts in Cape Town to defeat Day Zero. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus