Briefing Parliament’s portfolio committee on co-operative governance and traditional affairs, Van Rooyen said the country remained adversely affected by the drought situation, especially three provinces. He said the drought was having a negative impact on the provinces’ economy with the agriculture sector in the Western Cape reporting a “major decline”. “The remaining parts of the country are affected with pockets of drought being experienced. This requires strategies to manage drought and other hazards,” Van Rooyen said. But the DA’s Kevin Mileham lashed out at the minister saying his party had been calling for declaration of a national disaster as far back as February 2016. “The Disaster Management Act says it has to affect a number of provinces. The minister sat on this and did nothing,” Mileham said. “Why have you not declared a national disaster earlier? I heard from good authority that 20 towns are without water and a number are at risk,” he charged. Van Rooyen defended the delay in declaring a national disaster in the three affected provinces. He said they had to follow processes before a declaration was made and also exhaust all the resources that were available. “We could not be put in a tight corner because some people want to realise their objectives not known to us. We followed the due processes to deal with this,” the minister said. Van Rooyen also said the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs would consider declaring the three Cape provinces gripped by drought national disaster areas. Van Rooyen, who doubles as chairperson of the inter-ministerial task team (IMTT) on drought and water scarcity, was yesterday meant to preside over a meeting to consider requests made by the provinces. The meeting was to decide on whether to declare the provinces national disaster areas when officials made technical presentations to the task team. Briefing the portfolio committee, Van Rooyen said the IMTT was to consider the technical submissions at a cabinet subcommittee meeting held in Tuynhuys. The three of Cape provinces have already declared themselves as disaster areas due to the drought which has left many of their towns running short of water. The DA-led Western Cape has been most vocal in pushing to be declared a national disaster area, but its calls have fallen on deaf ears.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus