Table Mountain Watch has called for more boards like the one at Silvermine to be erected in known hot spots after recent gruesome attacks on tourists in the mountains. “These ongoing crimes could negatively affect the tourism industry, and it has already affected the family of the victims. Rather let the tourists know the possible dangers than let them risk their lives. Having the boards is part of creating awareness,” Table Mountain Watch spokesperson André van Schalkwyk said. He said Table Mountain National Park (TMNP) produced the sign and they had reached an agreement to work together to ensure safety in the park. John Penny, a hiker, said the signage gave a bad impression of national parks to international tourists. “TMNP must rather consider using drone technology to investigate and photograph people on the mountain. Criminals would be less likely to work the mountain and more people would be arrested.” Susan Chapman, another hiker, said even though drones were expensive they would be more effective than the current strategy. “Yesterday (Tuesday) we met with TMNP, which is a huge step in the right direction. We are claiming back our mountains. We have also made contact with both SAPS and City law enforcement senior management and will be seeking to meet with them next. We are hoping that through good planning by the end of February everything will be implemented,” Van Schalkwyk said. A security group will also been established to watch hikers and cyclists. SANParks spokesperson Merle Collins said the spike in attacks on tourists had led to extra security measures being put in place by both SANParks and the City of Cape Town. This had also resulted in arrests being made. The Portfolio Committee on Tourism condemned the increased attacks on tourists and hikers on the Table Mountain range during the holiday season. Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Tourism Beatrice Ngcobo said the increase of violence on tourists was shocking and concerning. “Notably, this past Sunday a man was stabbed to death on the mountain. These attacks will affect tourism, which is a major role-player in the economy, particularly in Cape Town, South Africa’s key international tourist destination," she said. "Fewer tourists visiting South Africa will impact on jobs and the related spin-offs."  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus