Kortje sang the national anthem. The MEC for education Debbie Schafer also attended. She thanked the Hamman family who donated the land on which the school is built on and the principal and teachers for their contribution to education. “I can see the passion of the principal and teachers," Schafer said. "The school stood tall in a time of adversity. A whole society’s approach is needed in education. “I want teachers to become involved in their children’s education. Schools should be seen as part of a community and I encourage learners to give back to their communities. Great schools do not excel without great leaders. I am pleased to speak at such a beautiful school today.” Gerald Hamman, whose great-grandfather Jacob J Hamman donated the land, said: “He wanted a school to be built, so that children did not have to walk long distances to receive an education. “Like Nelson Mandela he realised the importance of education. He then donated the land to the church who in turn built the school. When it started out the school was known as Die Hoogte. “It started with only 41 learners and was multiracial. In 1971 the name changed again to Jan Bosman Primary. “Over the 110 years the school produced engineers, architects, doctors and lawyers. Later the school’s name changed to Kuils River Primary again.” Hamman said he, his sister Glenda and his children all attended Kuils River Primary. The Education Department’s circuit manager, Keith de Wet, said the school formed part of the department’s programme to replace prefab and mud schools. “This school should be valued as a one of the flagship schools,” he said. Kuils River Primary’s principal, Zondelia Lombard-Swartz, said the school had evolved from a small building to a very big school with a rich history. "With education we give our learners the key to unlock the world. If you are fired up to deliver quality education, you will always grow to greatness. “We strive to equip our learners to make a meaningful contribution to their communities and society. Our teachers also go beyond the call of duty. “Notwithstanding the challenges, we give our best at all times,” she said.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus