Shamese Abib, supported by the Rail Commuters Action Group (RCAG), filed a criminal complaint against Prasa at Muizenberg Police station on Monday, saying incident could have been prevented. On January 13, Keeno Petersen-Abib, 19, was travelling between Lakeside and False Bay with his friend when they were approached by three assailants. Keeno jumped off the train when two men who had a gun came straight at him. “I am angry at the security guards who turned a blind eye. I am angry because his friends told me my son had tried to close the doors earlier but they wouldn’t close. “Keeno was standing at the door keeping children away from danger , , , there were many dangers besides the robbers,” Abib said. Keeno matriculated from Heathfield High School last year and applied to study civil engineering at False Bay College. Keeno has two younger brothers 11 and 14. “The incident just felt like a bad dream. When the college called I had to tell them he is no longer coming - he’s gone for good. “Although I’m starting to accept that I’ll never see him again, the pain hasn’t gone yet. His friends came over and they said they were sorry for not being able to help him - this broke my heart,”Abib said. Her younger 14-year-old son who suffered a panic attack after the incident has been left depressed and in despair. “He has very few friends. Keeno was his best friend and role model. He used to take a train to school and back, now he walks and it’s a long distance from home. I don’t know what to do any more because he has given up on life,”she said. Abib said she had reached out to the chairperson of RCAG, Leslie van Minnen, who had endured the pain of losing a child in a similar incident. Van Minnen has suffered nearly two decades of bureaucratic hell battling to ensure the safety of people using Metrorail trains on which his son Juan was stabbed to death 17 years ago. A week later, the Fish Hoek community came together in the civic centre, and the action group was launched. He set up office in his home and was soon receiving 50 calls a day from people whose loved ones had been killed, robbed or injured on the trains. “Charges are being laid against all the relevant organs of state involved with transport the chief executives and the senior managers at Prasa. We cannot allow those in authority to constantly get away with this. There has to be accountability and responsibility. We will give them time to investigate and if they don’t take it to Ipid (the Independent Police Investigative Directorate),” Van Minnen said. He said #UnitedBehind would be collaborating with them to  ensure that the Abib family got justice and all the support that they needed. Lieutenant-Colonel Maggie Rossouw Muizenberg police station’s acting station commander, said charges were filed and and a probe would start immediately. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said they had not yet been formally notified of the charges, but would co-operate fully with the police.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus