The transformation of the hospital into a day centre in 1993 was a painful procedure for the community and staff, who were deployed to various health centres. But on Friday both centres will close for good. Nursing sister Ada Smith said the closures may rip open a few old wounds. However, she also said they were for the best as they would bring about improved health service for all. “In 1987, the hospital was a small hospital, it was a home away from home. I did my training there and when it closed in December 1993 we were heartsore. It was an emotional time and people were deployed to other hospitals. They’re shutting their doors now again, so for people who were there before my time, it’s still very emotional. “The patients are also attached to it, but it’s all to improve the patient care. We’re moving from a clinic with fragmented services to a one-stop shop. We still have those old manual X-ray machines, so now we’re going digital,” said Smith. Nolene Wiener, a Robbie Nurock nursing sister who worked at the centre for 27 years, said she too looked forward to moving to the new hospital as the quality of care would improve. Wiener, who initially started out as a general worker, said she would not forget how the hospital helped her grow by assisting her to become a nurse. “I was a general worker for 10 years at the centre before a sister spotted me and said I was a good candidate for a nurse. I then completed my matric and training. I’m looking forward to moving into the new centre, it’s nice there,” said Wiener. Health Department spokesperson Monique Johnstone said the health services offered at the Woodstock Centre and Robbie Nurock would be offered at the new District Six Community Day Centre (CDC) in Caledon Street, which would service the population of 70000 from Woodstock, Salt River, Vredehoek, Bo-Kaap, City Bowl and the CBD. Services at CDC include family planning, antenatal care, termination of pregnancy; an integrated chronic disease management; mental health services; antiretroviral service; minor surgical procedures, chronic medicine collection, nursing outreach and pharmacy services, etc. TB services would be introduced to new clients in April and X-rays operational next Wednesday, February 28. Johnstone added that clients who were given appointments for 2018 need to access services at the new facility. “All appointments given to clients for offside chronic collection will remain the same. Clients will be directed to either our Vanguard or Du Noon Community Health Centres or the New Somerset Hospital for X-rays during the transition period. “Clients can also be assured that all relevant patient information and their folders from both Robbie Nurock and Woodstock will be transferred to the District Six CDC,” said Johnstone Staff at the new District Six Community Day Centre can be contacted on 0218335400 from Monday, February 26. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus