De Lille is expected at the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday in support of an urgent application to have a city councillors’ vote in secret in the motion of no confidence levelled against her. This, she said, would allow councillors to vote with their conscious. Advocate Dali Mpofu, EFF national chairperson, will be representing De Lille in court. “The DA leadership has been giving instructions to caucus all along on how to vote and even to vote with the ANC in their motion of no confidence. So why can’t they instruct the caucus to have a secret vote?” De Lille asked. “It seems that the Backroom Boys Club are so pre-occupied with bullying tactics that they fail to see the hypocrisy between this matter and when the DA fought for a secret ballot along with the UDM with the motion of no confidence into President Jacob Zuma. In order to ensure consistency, we are using the same legal counsel to ensure that the same legal principle is tested,” she said ahead of the motion scheduled for Thursday. Bellville-South ward councillor Mercia Kleinsmith requested an urgent meeting of the caucus to discuss the motion. The motion was discussed within the DA’s caucus last week and the caucus had decided by 84 votes to 59 that it had lost confidence in De Lille. There was one spoilt vote. Grant Twigg, DA metro leader, however said that he would be voting to oust De Lille, but the divided DA caucus will need the support of opposition if they were to succeed in getting rid of De Lille. “Let it be clear and let it be known to all, secret ballot or not, on February 15, I’m voting to remove Patricia de Lille as the mayor of Cape Town. I have been a councillor for about 20 years and know exactly what I’m doing, and why I’m doing it. For those not in council I can understand you might not entirely be clear but as a serving councillor I cannot be expected to be led by someone who has already lost the confidence of her own caucus,” he said. While the DA is expected to announce the latest developments around De Lille today, opposition parties are ready to defend De Lille while others are sitting on the fence. The ANC is set not to support the motion, but regional spokesperson Khaya Yozi said they would discuss the way forward today, 12 February 2018. The ACDP will not be in support of the motion, Grant Haskin previously said. It is still unclear if the EFF will support the motion. EFF councillor Andrew Arnolds referred all queries to EFF provincial leader Bernard Joseph who could not be reached for comment. Ganief Hendricks, leader of Al Jama-ah, said they will be voting against the motion. Yagah Adams, Cape Muslim Party councillor, said he would be abstaining, citing that it is an internal matter. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus