However, parties in oppositions benches have pointed to improper budget priorities, fingering unnecessary expenditure in the 2017/18 adjustments budgets tabled by Mayor Patricia de Lille last week. De Lille said: “In respect of revenue and expenditure, and adjustments, there is a reduction of R 1.4bn within the informal settlements, water and waste services directorate on water and sanitation sales due to water restrictions and additional measures that have been implemented since September 2017.” To cover the shortfall, reductions in other departments were implemented: Savings on salaries, wages and allowances to the value of R127.9 million, bulk purchases R102.6m, capital replacement reserves R671m,  debtors working capital R94m, and various general expenditure items R10.3m. The balance of the shortfall will be financed through: A reduction of R500m on salaries, wages and allowances, which is a once-off saving. Additional revenue of R110.9m on user charges and connections fees (water and sanitation) is proposed. A reduction of R5m on service charges revenue for corporate services is proposed. A reduction of R28.2m on internal loan interest is proposed, due to the earlier than anticipated capitalisation of assets under construction. Reduction of R32.6m on income forgone provisions is proposed. Additional R120m on external interest revenue resulting from improved returns earned on higher than expected total cash and investment balances held by the City since the start of the financial year compared to the previous financial year. De Lille also said there was an additional allocation of R145m for water resilience funded from operational efficiencies. ACDP councillor Grant Haskin, 
however, said the budget had been lauded as the one that resolved the funding 
mechanisms for the urgently needed water augmentation schemes to stave off Day Zero. “We agree with Capetonians: why should they be forced to fund revenue shortfalls, and more importantly why should they do so when the City is clearly determined to proceed with unnecessary expenditure that will not stave off Day Zero? We were promised this would not be the case.” Haskin said the budget for the Cape Flats aquifer extraction had been decreased by R40m to R260m. He also said the budget for water reclamation had dropped from R80m to R20m. The budget for renovations to the Good Hope Centre has been retained at R4m, the Grand Parade will still be upgraded for R1m, and the City Hall will be revamped at a cost of R10m. “So by June 2018, possibly in our third month of Day Zero, the Good Hope Centre, City Hall and Grand Parade will have been revamped. That is poor budget prioritising." @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus 