The new school, iThemba Primary, built for the Vrygrond community near Capricorn, was officially opened on Wednesday after more than five years of intensive persuasion and planning. The first phase of construction saw the school’s first intake, 105 children, begin classes last month. After completion of all stages of construction, 700 disadvantaged children will receive a high-quality education and a chance at a better future. Help Alliance bears the construction costs of more than one million euros (R15m) and is the largest project of the aid organisation. The school was opened by Help Alliance patron Vivian Spohr, accompanied by her husband Carsten Spohr, chairperson of the executive board and chief executive of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. She said the Alliance was pleased to be able to offer so many deserving children in the township a first-class education. “It is a dream come true not only for the many people who have worked tirelessly for the project, but the children and families who will be impacted by the education provided. The girls and boys attending iThemba now have a new opportunity to achieve their dreams,” said Spohr. Help Alliance has been involved with the children in the township for more than 10 years and has been supporting the iThemba Pre-School since then, where currently 85 children between the ages of three and six are being cared for. Susanne French, Help Alliance’s project manager, said that with the first phase of the school completed and worth R13m, there was more to come, with the school eventually being worth R88m after completion. “We have just completed phase one. Our goal is to build a community college for the whole family, because we have a holistic approach. The project is building towards offering evening classes and sports for young people.” French said this age group was particularly at risk. “We must show young people an alternative lifestyle to gang violence, drugs and alcohol. For this we need many more donations.” French added that the school will follow the Western Cape Education Department’s curriculum, offering two English/Xhosa and one English/Afrikaans classes.  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus