Stellenbosch native, downhill and freeride mountain biker, Theo Erlangsen, 22, will perform alongside the top freeriders in the world after he impressed them at a practice ride outside Stellenbosch this week. He’s the only South African in the line-up. Erlangsen recently graduated with a BCom from Stellenbosch University, but he’d much rather be feeling the wind rush through his hair in the great outdoors than sit behind a desk in a cubicled office building. The Monster DarkFEST riders and builders saw his raw talent and decided on the spot to add him to the line-up. The event, taking place at Vuurberg Estate along Helshoogte Pass between Stellenbosch and Franschhoek, is less of a competition and more of an exhibition of skill on a breakneck fast downhill course. “I’ve tried riding along the road this is way safer. Touch wood, I haven't broken anything yet, but at least when I’m riding downhill, I’m protected. I’m wearing a full helmet, neck brace, knee-guards, shin-guards, protective clothing, and on a road bike, you’re just in this tiny scrap of lycra,” Erlangsen laughs. “And when I look at my bare leg and then down at the tar, with the cars whooshing by, I know who’s gonna come off second-best in a collision. It’s not gonna be the car or the road, I can tell you that! “So downhill, for me, is way safer.” Some may not be as lucky, as head of the DarkFEST project Sam Reynolds explains. “Some guys come off way worse I mean, there’s broken wrists, broken ribs some riders break a lot of bones, but thankfully, I only just broke my back once and hopefully I won't break anything more,” he says, reaching over to touch the wooden patio umbrella pole. Coming back from the injury was difficult, said Reynolds, a professional freerider from the UK. “Yeah, it was mostly psychological, but that mental motivation to get back on the bike was strong. “Most of the time, when I was out with my injury, I spent all my time watching the circuit, watching videos on YouTube, seeing what new tricks I could try, seeing new courses to build.” Yes, they build their own courses. And it’s not as mathematical as one might expect. “I’m sure some people do calculations,” Erlangsen says, “but these guys they just feel it, you know? “It’s like art. You kinda gauge with the eye and it kinda looks right and you know when it feels right and you've got a good feel for it.” Erlangsen doesn't join in the building of the courses, but has tried them out. He came off second-best after hesitating on a steep decline approaching 80km/* and the split-second lapse of focus caused him to land face-first into the side of a ramp. “I think we’ll call that Theo-se-hoek from now on.” Propelled only by gravity and the sheer force of will, these free-riders regularly clock 75km/* before launching themselves off ramps that send them soaring off into the air. The biggest jump of the course Reynolds has helped build is a gaping 90m gap from the departure point to the nearest landing ramp. “That’s the one where most of the guys will be doing their tricks,” Reynolds says. Reynolds came to South Africa for an event five years ago and has not been able to stay away since. “Obviously there's a lot of the negative reports coming out of South Africa, and it’s completely different when you’re here. I’ve been coming here for five years and you can’t keep me away. It’s a beautiful country and having an event like this here can only help grow the sport locally.” @LanceTheWitten  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus