Cape Town - Saturday was a day of firsts for Mitchells Plain beauty queen Shumeez Scott. The 18-year-old, who has Down Syndrome, won her first pageant title when she was crowned the very first Miss Magnificent Women International: Phenomenal Woman in South Africa. She has also won the international leg of the pageant and will be collecting that crown in India later this month. RELATED: Mitchells Plain teen beauty queen set to wow India It was an emotional day for the family of Shumeez, and her mother Bahia says her daughter is a brave pioneer. “It was very emotional for me especially as the dream I always had for her became a reality on Saturday night, to live a life like any normal child, to reach for your dreams, to believe in yourself and to show the world,” the mom says. “Every step she takes will be an inspiration to other kids with special needs to say ‘step up, live your dreams and be proud of who you are’. I can only thank the Almighty for making this possible.” The crowning ceremony was held at Villa Vissagio’s De La Paix in Klapmuts, and Shumeez looked stunning in a white ball gown, diamante earrings and her hair in loose curls around her shoulders. The Miss MWI Phenomenal 2018/19 is the first such event in the world for people with special needs. Shumeez became interested in beauty pageants last year after she drew the attention of directors on a photoshoot she attended with her older sister Zhuqeelah, 21, a hijaabi model. People on set were so impressed with Shumeez’s ability to take direction that they approached her to also become a model. Since then, the pretty teen has won two national and international titles. Shumeez won the national Miss DS Ribbons4Roses SA 2017 pageant on her birthday on 30 November, as well as the inaugural Miss MWI Phenomenal 2018/19. Shumeez tells the Daily Voice she is proud to represent people with Down Syndrome. “I’m proud of myself and happy to be able to stand up for Down Syndrome people. I’m excited to go to India and I can’t wait to get my world title.” Shumeez leaves for Mumbai on 18 February.  venecia.america@inl.co.za  Daily Voice