The work of the 28-year-old, among a host of 30 other international artists aged between 25 to 30, will be showcased at the New Museum in New York. Gunn-Salie said this was his biggest challenge in his career yet. “I am grateful for this opportunity, it has created a platform for me to engage with an international audience. This is my first exhibition in New York and this will be the biggest exhibition I have been involved in. I am exactly where I should be at this point in my career,” Gunn-Salie said. Titled Songs for Sabotage, curators Gary Carrion-Murayari and Alex Gartenfeld have aimed to introduce leading young artists from emerging art centres around the world in an attempt to counteract the insular nature of art centres like New York. The Capetonian’s work refutes the neat periodisation of his home country’s post-apartheid condition, reviving struggles, moments and histories of political and social repression that continues to haunt the country. The title Songs of Sabotage suits the name of the entire artwork - Senzenina (What have we done, in Zulu) - which depicts a group of 17 life-sized hunched and ghost-like figures that seem to cower past the viewer in a display of surrender incarnating the Marikana massacre. He used police footage of the protesters at the precise moment before police opened fire, also used at the inquest to prove the protest’s peaceable assembly, to cast and memorialise the 34 slain in a sculptural graveyard. The sculptures are accompanied by a soundscape schematically recreating the scene from archival audio. “I hope my work is able to take the real critical issues we face in an expressive way and hit a large-multinational audience,” he added. Gunn-Salie is an honours student from UCT’s Michaelis School of Fine Art. He has showcased his work at the 2015 Venice Biennale, exhibitions at Johannesburg's Goodman Gallery and the A4 Arts Foundation in District Six. In August he will host a solo exhibition at the Goodman Gallery in Cape Town. He is not just an artist but activist, he works across media and often collaborates with those who have suffered from corporate and state violence.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus    