Recently an image of the completed 64 MeerKAT telescopes was revealed to the world in Carnarvon in the Northern Cape. A Square Kilometre Array (SKA) scientist, Fernando Camilo, said the image was a scientific discovery. MeerKAT is the precursor to SKA, which is expected to be completed by 2020. Camilo said that they were “genuinely stunned at some features in the image, especially the narrow filaments, which showed a level of fine detail and structure that nobody, even world experts, expected. We were also stunned by all the data we got from MeerKAT. We did not expect this. That is why it is a scientific discovery”. “Now we want to use science to unravel the mysteries of the universe. As a scientist I am hopeful and excited that we will find life on other planets. This will be a world first. Meaning that MeerKAT will now start with science operations. MeerKAT will also address key questions related to the galaxy’s formation and evolution. We had MeerKAT looking at the centre of the Milky Way. The centre of the universe is tricky to produce images from. But with MeerKAT it produced the clearest view of the centre of the Milky Way,” he said. MeerKAT is a radio telescope that monitors radio waves. It will enable scientists to view radio waves that have been travelling through space since the start of the universe. Camilo added that MeerKAT had been designed and built overwhelmingly by South Africans, over more than a decade. “It’s a super-high-technology project of scientific infrastructure, the likes of which very few nations in the world have managed to achieve. And South Africans have done it. To me, it speaks of hope,” he said. Takalane Nemaungani, the acting chief director of astronomy, said MeerKAT would also be collecting plenty of data, which would have to be analysed. We will need different kinds of people to analyse this data. It will require people with high computing capabilities. They should be able to make science out of it,” he said. @RusanaPhilander Cape Argus