It is alleged that a group of minors, about 20 of them, aged 16 and below have been mugging tourists and visitors at the harbour. The minors do not attend school and spend most of their day begging, robbing and pickpocketing visitors. Head of Security at Mariner’s Wharf, Victor Sawyer, said from 10am they would be loitering in groups around the harbour. About four months ago, following complaints from businesses police and officials from the Department of Social Development (DSD) did an operation which resulted in seven of these minors being arrested and assessed. Of those, four were placed in diversion programmes. Sawyer said at times the gang of minors would walk up to customers and grab the food on the tables. “We have been forced to have security at all times. They mug tourists in the harbour and hold them at knifepoint taking their bags. “We are losing customers. People do not want to come back because of these children. Locals are aware of them, but tourists are clueless,” he said. Sawyer said the issue surrounding the arrest of these minors was complex. He said because most of them are 11 years old and younger, when arrested they are released back in the care of their parents or guardians. “Their parents should be charged. They are the ones who are not taking responsibility for their children. We are literally held hostage by these children, they fear no one,” said Sawyer. Hout Bay Community Cohesion director, Bronwyn Moor, said the children in the gang were dealing drugs. “They are so brazen, they believe nothing can happen to them. Adults are scared of them; at crime scenes they walk away insulting police saying they can’t be arrested,” she said. Moor said for the past two years, locals have tried but failed to help these minors. “There needs to be some form of restorative justice. For them to go on to the DSD system and get help. They are fearless and live horrific lives,”she said. A local neighbourhood watch member, who declined to be named, said they were frustrated with the situation. “These children need to get help. People know them but are scared to lay charges and when that doesn’t happen they will never get into the system. They know the law, they are smart,” he said. DSD spokesperson Esther Lewis said the department was aware of this. “There are different platforms for interventions, however children with challenging behaviour are most likely treated as individuals with specific needs when reported. Lewis added that there were various processes to be followed when minors commit crime. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus