After a month’s delay, Brown, made his second appearance in court in connection with the rape and murder of 6-year-old Stacey Adams of Eastridge. Her naked body was discovered buried in a shallow grave next to the Brown’s wendy house in De la Rey Road, Eastridge, in Mitchells Plain on June 24. Brown, was the boyfriend of the child’s mother, Sacha Adams. Dressed in a maroon and white sweater, with a black beanie in his hands, Brown kept his eyes fixed on the ground, lifting his head occasionally to glance at the magistrate. He didn’t turn to look at a packed gallery where Sacha Adams and Stacey’s grandparents sat in the second row. State prosecutor Juwaya Kleinsmith said bail would be opposed. The court heard that both the State and defence were ready to proceed with bail application; however, the matter was postponed as the proceedings were heard by a stand-in magistrate. The magistrate said it was not in the interest of justice to start with the bail application, not have it concluded on the day and drag the matter out until he would be back at the court again. The case was postponed to August 16. Meanwhile, outside court the local neighbourhood watch held a picket opposing bail. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The community had a 17-page petition with over 500 signatures that they were going to hand to the prosecutor to strengthen the State’s case. Family spokesperson Lyle Daniels said they hoped the court would do “the right thing” and not grant Brown bail. “This is still eating at us, the family. It’s worse now because the accused’s family wants to return to their home, which is right opposite ours. “This will mean that every day we open our doors or look out the window we will see them,” he said. Daniels said Stacey’s mother was suffering emotionally. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus