In the notice for shale gas exploration rights in the Karoo by petroleum giant Shell, Bundu Gas and Oil Exploration and Falcon Oil and Gas, the minister calls for submissions from the public whose rights “may be materially and adversely affected by his pending decision”. Janse Rabie, Agri SA’s head of natural resources, said they could not support a project of this magnitude anywhere in the country. “Agri SA has consistently maintained, in the absence of sufficient answers by both petrochemical companies and government as to the availability of sufficient water to support shale gas exploration and production and adequate answers as to what would be done with the resulting contaminated water it cannot support shale gas development in the Karoo or elsewhere in South Africa.” Rabie said the threat of shale gas development in the Karoo appeared to dissipate after Shell’s announcement this year that it would be scaling down its operations. “The matter remains very much alive, as is seen by government’s most recent notice. Neither Shell, Bundu or Falcon actually withdrew their applications for exploration rights for shale gas in the Karoo and those applications still remain pending. “Once exploration rights are granted, it opens the door to full-scale production rights automatically being granted in due course,” Rabie said. Areas affected include parts of Beaufort West, Murraysburg, Graaff-Reinet, the Northern and Eastern Cape. Beaufort West mayor Noel Constable said he was in support of the project. “We have had meetings with the companies and with those who are opposing the project. It is set to create many jobs and will uplift our communities. Our studies have given us the assurance that the project won’t negatively affect our underground water system. We accept that and support this project cautiously,” he said. Karoo Action Group chief executive Jonathan Deal said his biggest fear was the excessive amounts of water needed. “We are sitting in a drought and we cannot afford shale gas. We are completely against this expensive exercise. It will be much cheaper to import gas from other African states,” he said. Asked about the job opportunities, Deal said: “One has to think about this clearly. Do people of the Karoo want a job with no water? I don’t think so,” he said. Those who previously forwarded comments or objections won’t have to resubmit their comments. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus