CAPE TOWN - Microsoft has announced that they will be redesigning its Skype app for Windows today.  Previously, the software giant released a universal app for Windows 10 users but now it is updating its Skype classic desktop app. It will be getting a new design that’s similar to the mobile version of Skype. The company is also planning to force all Skype desktop users to upgrade to the 8.0 version by the 1st of September 2018. "We built Skype version 8.0 based on feedback from our community adding exciting new features while ensuring it’s simple to use with the same familiar interface of Skype version 7.0", said the company is a blog post. The new classic desktop app for Skype includes many of the features from the Windows 10 or mobile versions. The new features include: Free HD video and screen sharing calls—Get together with 1 or 24 of your friends, families, or colleagues no matter what device they use Skype on. More productive messaging—Express how you’re feeling by reacting to messages in conversations. Use @mentions to easily grab someone’s attention in a group chat. Simply type the @ symbol followed by their name to trigger a notification for them. You can easily find all your @mentions and get back to people in the notification center. Chat media gallery —  Chat media gallery makes it easy to find files, links, and photos that were shared in a conversation, whether it was yesterday or last month. No more scrolling through your chat history. Just click Gallery under the chat name to see all the files, links, and photos in the conversation. Share photos, videos, and other files — Share up to 300 MB at a time over Skype just by dragging and dropping files into your conversation window. Skype version 8.0 will be available on iPad — Features such as quoted messages, personalized themes, chat list, @mentions, and more are now available on the Skype for iPad experience. Read receipts — See at a glance who’s read your messages. Once someone reads your message, their avatar appears beneath it in the Skype chat. Private Conversations — Have end-to-end encrypted Skype audio calls and send text messages or files—such as images, audio, or videos—using the industry standard Signal Protocol. Messages and notifications in these conversations will be hidden in the chat list to keep the information you share private. Call recording — Take call snapshots to the next level with call recording. Capture a special Skype calls with loved ones or record important meetings with colleagues. Call recording is completely cloud-based, and as soon as you start recording, everyone in the call is notified that the call is being recorded—so there are no surprises. Call recordings combine everyone’s video as well as any screens shared during the call. Profile invites — Easily start a conversation or call with people who aren’t on Skype yet. Simply go to your profile in Skype and tap the Share Profile option to invite friends to join you on Skype. Group links—Quickly get a group together on Skype, for either a group chat or call.  Create a new group and tap the Invite More People option to share a link to your group. " We appreciate the support of the Skype community as we upgrade the experience and listen to feedback along the way", concluded the company. To upgrade to the latest version of Skype from the app, select Help from the top toolbar and then select Check for Updates or visit their website. WATCH:   Follow Business Report on Instagram here - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE