Uyathandwa disappeared while playing at her grandparents’ home in Lambatha Close in Makhaza, Khayelitsha on Monday at around 6pm. The little girl’s body was found a few hours later following a community search. Police confirmed that she had sustained stab wounds to her chest. On Thursday, Gamda made his first appearance before Magistrate Vernon Jantjies at the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court. State prosecutor Andrew Edem said Uyathandwa was lured by the accused to his shack where he attempted to rape her before tying her up. The court heard that there was no sexual penetration; however, Gamda forced Uyathandwa to perform oral sex before slitting the little girl’s throat. He used a wheelie bin to dump her body in a nearby field. Gamda confessed to the crimes at the time of his arrest, but the District Surgeon found that he was mentally unstable and was not fit to make a confession before psychiatric observation. Gamda told the court he would need a Legal Aid lawyer. Magistrate Jantjies ordered that Gamda be sent to Valkenberg Hospital for psychiatric evaluation The defence said it wouldn’t be applying for bail pending the outcome of the psychiatric report. The case was postponed to August 23. Outside court, Khayelitsha community members protested against bail for Gamda. The community signed a petition which would be handed to the court. “We as the community demand that the accused must be refused bail. He must stay in custody. “The community want to be protected against similar horrific crimes by this accused,” the petition stated. Community Policing Forum chairperson Ronnie Busakwe said the community was still shocked by the incident and was doing all it could to support the family. He said the community was angered by the court’s concern over Gamda’s mental stability. “We are shocked that he is now claiming that he is mentally ill.” He added that the community “wants Gamda to rot in jail”. “People are angry; they want justice to prevail and threaten to take the law into their own hands if he is released,” said Busakwe. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus