The march, from Keizersgracht Street to Parliament, was organised by the
Government Communications and Information System (GCIS) as part of the Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu centenary celebrations. GCIS director Geraldine Thopps said the government organisation, in partnership with local government and the City of Cape Town, would undertake further initiatives to help curb violence against women and children. “We are going to go to all the hot spots where violence is rife  so that we can tell communities that this has to stop,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith was at the march. “We have a high number of women and children being abused in our country. This (march) is men saying that they want to be part of the solution,” Smith said. He said the City had a wide range of workshops planned to educate men about abuse. A number of organisations and activists, including  Lucinda Evans from Lavender Hill, were also in attendance. “I am here to support our men who are here to stop the scourge of violence in our country, and I hope this will prompt men to speak to other men and teach them (about the correct way to treat women and children),” Evans said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.AdChoicesADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads She led a group of volunteers to search for slain teen Rene Tracy Roman. The 13-year-old girl went missing in March last year. Her body was found in near a wendy house on Human Rights Day, just metres from her home. Police arrested Andrew Plaatjies in Stellenbosch in March, 2017. “There needs to be a deeper conversation taking place. I think we have men who are in crisis, and we haven’t really thought about men and created safe spaces for men,” Evans said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mayor Patricia de Lille addressed the marchers. “South Africa is still experiencing high levels of abuse and the killing 
of women and children, and this is an indictment on our society,” she said . “This calls for greater action from all sectors to... put an end to this problem. 
For how long are we going to have to gather like this to speak on the same issue? How long till we see real action against
perpetrators of this injustice?” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. De Lille said the march should motivate men to break the chain of violence against women and children. A march against the abuse of women and children took place in Pretoria on Tuesday. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus