That is the warning from a group of concerned elderly Cape Town residents who took to the streets on Saturday as part of Justice 4 Cape Town, a social justice campaign formed in May. “This government has thrown us away, we want justice for the people who built this country,” co-ordinator Ghalema Easton said. She said she had seen first-hand how elderly residents lived in deplorable conditions where they used their low state pension to fund high water bills, rent and high cost of living. “How can people live like this? Something has to be done, people cannot live on R1600. We are going to keep pushing,” Easton said. She said they had started planning their next march. “If you are squeezing innocent elderly people out of their homes, we will come for you,” she said. Justice 4 Cape Town garnered support from various other community leadership forums around the City. “We know the pain the elderly are going through, we have seen the harm that the City has caused to our people. The time has come for us to show them who the real leaders are,” said Steve Ross chairperson of Inspire Elsies River. “It’s incredible how the City officials can sit back in their luxury homes while our people are suffering,” he said. Among the demands listed in the memorandum the organisation handed over to the City are that it scraps the high water bills pensioners receive, and prioritises housing for the elderly who are backyard dwellers and living in informal settlements, and have been on the housing data base for over 20 years. They demanded that mayco member for health JP Smith visit all the communities where there are major service delivery problems, particularly at clinics. The organisation demanded that the mayor accept the memorandum, but she was not there. Instead mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron accepted it. He defended the City’s position on fixing the housing crisis in the city. “The City owns 50000 rental units and the only people who are evicted are the ones who use those units to sell drugs and use the City’s property for illegal purposes. I agree we need to do more in the affordable housing space,” said Herron. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus