“I have agreed to sell the land to the City of Cape Town, but the city said they have no money. Land dwellers know that I have a court interdict to evict them, but I will not evict them until the city (council) respond,” said Oberholzer Community leader Xolelwa Halom, said: “The land owner is willing to sell the land to the City of Cape Town, why can’t the city (council) buy the land for us?” He emphasised that the protest would continue until their demand was met. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The land-grabbers torched the fire station, three municipal offices, four vehicles and a storeroom at the electricity depot near NY78 Gugulethu. Ward councillor Nkululeko Mgolombane said what upset them was because they got no response from the city council. “We have no way forward as yet. We hope the city will come to our rescue,” said Mgolombane. JP Smith, mayoral committee member for safety and security, said: “We are thankful no one was injured, but this has been a traumatic experience for the nine firefighters who were on duty at the time. The city has arranged trauma counselling and will provide other support they might need.” “Our crews will be based at the Mitchells Plain fire station. What this means is that the actions of a few have put the lives of thousands of residents at risk, as there will now be a delay in the response times to any fire call outs in the Gugulethu area,” Smith said Eddie Andrews, mayco executive management team, said: “The city has met land owners, those involved in the invasions and other stakeholders, on several occasions, and have agreed to have report-back meetings with various stakeholders. "There is no lack of commitment to communicate with residents from the city’s side. The city has earmarked more than R850million for various informal settlement upgrade and incremental development programmes over the next few years to 2020/21. This excludes the additional funding allocated to formal housing projects,” said Andrews. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus