Michaela Fourie, 18, of Belhar, brought back gold for the kata and is No.1 in the world in her age category. She also obtained third place in the kumite division and received bronze. Her baby sister, Meeca Fourie, 14, who attends Belhar High School, achieved second place and received silver for kata. The girls and their teammates from Samurai Karate Matroosberg dojo were welcomed to loud fanfare by friends and family at the Cape Town International Airport on Monday. Tears flowed and there were cheers as the team, and members from other dojos in and around Cape Town, made their way into the international arrivals carrying their medals and trophies. Sponsored The team was sponsored by the Community Chest. The sisters’ mom, Janine Fourie, 42, says her daughters practise six days a week. “When I heard Michaela is number one in the world in her age category and that Meeca is second in her age category in the world, I almost fainted,” Janine says. “My girls worked hard. They have been practising six days a week so this is well deserved. We are so proud of them.” Micheala also achieved second place in the same competition two years ago when it was held in Germany. Speaking about her solo kata performance, the teen says: “The rounds were really difficult. This is my year. It was the first time I competed solo during a final. It felt good.” Meeca did a group kata and says precision was the name of the game. “We were in a group and every sequence that you do has to be together and on the same time. It was exciting for me because I was in the finals for the first time.” The sisters have been trained by their uncle David Windvogel and have been doing karate for the past seven years. Other dojos like Vasco also achieved gold. Sensei Annelize Morkel brought home two trophies. Joan Darries, the project manager of the Community Chest, said they assisted two years ago with the previous winner, “and then we heard about the sisters and our CEO decided that we get on board and help. This was well deserved for these girls”.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice