“Girls are no longer safe anywhere - not in schools, not in universities, not in their communities, because they are at risk of being killed,” said social development portfolio committee chairperson Rose Capa. She said the committee’s responsibility was to protect the vulnerable in the country. “Women, the elderly and children are always at risk. This is why we decided to have this committee briefing so we can hear what they have to say,” Capa said. Yesterday the committee was briefed by the Department of Social Development, the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) and the Commission for Gender Equality on the interventions being taken to deal with the escalating statistics of rape and kidnapping of children, and gender-based violence. Angie Makwakwa from the SAHRC said: “We believe this portfolio committee is a critical stakeholder in the fight against the violation of children’s rights.” She said the commission was mainly concerned about early child marriages, sexual assault of children, abduction of children, forced marriages, and the assaults and killings of children with albinism. A study released by the SAHRC in April showed South Africa to have one of the highest rates of sexual violence against women. The study said the extent of under-reporting was unclear, but it was thought to be largely due to cultural, psychological, societal, institutional and practical barriers. Despite under-reporting, between 2008 and last year, 613 759 sexual offences were recorded by the police, a staggering contrast to incidents of murder (172 695) and attempted murder (171 067) recorded over the same period. “Police statistics therefore need to be scrutinised as they do not paint a full and accurate picture of the extent of the phenomenon,” the study showed. “We are working hard to set up a dedicated childs’ rights unit within the SAHRC, which will enable us to have our own dedicated social workers,” said Makwakwa. The MEC for Social development, Albert Fritz, told the committee the common problem was missing fathers. “They make children then they disappear, then those children become criminals and murder other children. We have a massive prison population. “We need to put child forums in place. Our courts are under-resourced to deal with these matters,” he said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus