The Clanwilliam Wild Flower Association vice-chairman, Daleen Schoombee, said the flower beds are waking up after a three-year drought and emerald green trees and flower buds bring hope of a spectacular flower show. “We celebrate the return after the terrible drought we’ve been experiencing. (The Clanwilliam show sees) a new design and a new way of portraying the landscape.” Three-hundred and fifty plant species will be on display at this year’s show scheduled for August. Last year, the Cederberg and Matzikama region had extremely low rainfall, which saw cancellation of the Clanwilliam Wild Flower Show, and saw the Darling Wild Flower Show reduced in size. Darling Wild Flower Show secretary Charles Duckitt said the Darling show will be back this year and will be running at 100%, as they’re expecting it to be one of the better shows this year. “We’re still very much in the beginning of the season, but due to recent rain, flowers have generated and we’re expecting flowers to be wonderful and well-displayed in the landscape. “We did plan a smaller show, but we now have capacity to increase it to full size. “The theme is Conservation for New Generations to conserve flowers and only pick what we need so the seedbeds can increase.” According to Cape Nature spokesperson Marietjie Engelbrecht, Darling, Hopefield and Clanwilliam flower shows can be expected to flower this upcoming season, however, not all areas in the Cape received enough rain to flourish. “The West Coast area seems to have received enough rain to make a difference this year, but the Cape Floristic Region is still patchy around the landscape. Climate change does have an influence and impact, but it seems the current rains could have a positive impact on the flowers during spring time. The Western Cape is one of the most special places in the world because regardless of if there are only a few flowers or a big and beautiful display, what you see may not be seen anywhere else in the world.” Cape Nature conservation manager of the Cederberg region Rika du Plessis agreed with Engelbrecht and said the drought has not fully broken, and follow-up rain is needed to carry the fields through warm summer months. “The mountains are almost like a mattress on which you pour a cup of water, when you pour water quickly, the water runs down and it takes a lot of cups to fill the mattress with water. “The mountains can thus be compared with the mattress. “If it rains too fast, the water will simply run away and take a lot longer to replenish underground water resources. “Snow melts slowly, so I hope it will be snowing on the Cederberg mountains this winter,” Du Plessis said. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus