On Monday, SAJBD chairperson Shaun Zagnoev confirmed he had filed a complaint of crimen injuria at the Sandton police station against Muhammad Hattia, Tameez Seedat and Matome Letsoalo. Hattia and Seedat are alleged to have posted anti-Semitic slurs on a WhatsApp group titled SneakerHeads. The group was set up for the buying and selling of footwear. The alleged hate speech remarks were a result of the group’s (Jewish) administrator’s refusal to allow political comments relating to the conflict in the Middle East. Hattia alleged posted swear words aimed at Jews and statements including “F**k Israel the non existent state”. It also allegedly said “Hitler f**ked up he should have killed you all”. Seedat allegedly wrote: “You Jews/Zionists will see your time coming. Make our fellow brothers and sisters suffer but what you don’t understand is that worse will be coming your way.” Meanwhile, on Twitter Letsoalo allegedly posted: “The Holocaust will be like a picnic when we are done with you all Zionists.” In another tweet, Letsoalo, whose Twitter account has since been closed, described Jews as vermin Hitler should have exterminated completely. Zagnoev said the malicious and overtly threatening nature of the comments posted were the reason the SAJBD had decided to lodge criminal charges. “It is totally unacceptable that anyone in South Africa should be defamed, demeaned and threatened in such horrific terms on account of their religion, race, ethnicity or other such grounds. We are appalled by the sheer depths of the hatred expressed against our Jewish community by these three individuals and will do whatever is necessary to make them accountable,” he said. SA Zionist Federation provincial council chairperson Rowan Polovin said the official complaints sent a clear message that anti-Semitism would not be tolerated. “We will not be silenced in our support of Israel. South Africans are continuously fed misinformation about Israel designed to spread hate. This unfortunately leads people to hate Israel and, by extension, the local South African Jewish community which has strong religious, spiritual and historical ties to Israel,” said Polovin. While Letsoalo and Hattia could not be reached, Seedat, when approached for comment, said people were only hearing one side of the story. He said he was aware of the complaints that had been lodged and would deal with them in court. He provided a screenshot of another WhatsApp group which made slurs against Muslims. “The hatred is coming from their side as well,” he said. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus