Cape Town - Missing Ravensmead girl Marceline Spandiel’s drug addict mother has a form of Alzheimer’s and has no idea what is going on around her. Her father lives on the street and his whereabouts are unknown. Marceline, 11, went missing on July 10 from Belhar station. Her mother lives with Marceline's grandmother in Uitsig, Ravensmead. Tracy Martin, 73, had signed over guardianship of her and her twin brother to child services because "they had refused to listen to her". They were sent to a child-care home in Stellenbosch at the beginning of the year, but after they ran away four times, the court ordered that the twins return to their grandmother until a foster home could be found for them. Pastor Adam Alexander, from the Uitsig Care Mission, said on Tuesday night: “The hunt for Marceline has still not borne fruit. We are still searching for her father, who lives on the street between Parow and Tyger Valley. He is nowhere to be found at the moment. “The mother is a drug addict and I think she has a form of Alzheimer’s and a problem with her brain. She lives at home with Marceline’s grandmother but has no idea what is happening around her. “We have been searching for Marceline since last week. The granny went to the temporary police base in Uitsig to report her missing. The police came back to her on Monday and then we reported her missing on social media to aid in the search. “If the mother had gone to a permanent police station, they would’ve reacted immediately. But because she went to the temporary police base, the reaction time took a bit longer. The police’s assistance up to this moment has been very good.” Quizzed on whether Uitsig was an area renowned for problems relating to children, Alexander said: “This is the first problem we’ve had concerning a child in Ravensmead for eight years. The biggest problem we have in the area is with gangsterism." Having lived in several foster homes with her twin brother, Alexander confirmed that Marceline had walked away from home before. There were two days where she went to her father but returned, he said. “She is a very intelligent girl and was involved in our life skills programme at school. Her brother is a bit ‘slow’. All the problem children are sent to us. “Marceline was in Tygersig Primary, but then the grandmother complained because they refused to listen to her, walked away from school a lot and visited their father on the street. That’s when they were moved to a children’s home in Stellenbosch, before being returned to their grandmother's care.” Marceline was last seen with her twin brother at Belhar station after they had decided to visit their father without telling their grandmother. Her brother later returned on his own and told Martin his sister had left on the train in the company an unknown woman.