Five of the dogs demonstrated their skills in line searches of narcotics and explosives, bite work, and the detection of substances in vehicles. Mayco member for safety security, and social services JP Smith, said “We were getting about 300 to 400 arrests a year and we thought those were adequate. We are now getting about 3800 drug and firearm arrests a year with this unit. The working dogs contribute very greatly to those statistics.” Director Charl Kitching explained the process of recruiting dogs. The 11 new dogs were acquired by the unit over 18 months. The programme has been implemented since 2009, with each dog being matched with a handler as a partner until the dog’s retirement at the age of seven or eight. Dogs with a drive for games like fetch or other focus-demanding activities make good recruits. German Shepherds and Dutch Shepherds are popular breeds in the unit. Of the 11 new dogs, there are two bloodhounds. “I’m especially excited about the bloodhounds because when we have the next missing persons case these dogs will make a difference,” said Smith. The training of the dogs lasts between a month and three months. According to Kitching, they are then trained in line searches once a week, “just to keep them sharp”. The dogs are also trained on obstacle courses to simulate real-life action that involves running, jumping and crawling. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Bite work is a precautionary part of their training. The director highlighted that in the past nine years, there was only one incident where bite work was necessary. “It is like pulling out your gun. We train them to only do it for the protection of handlers,” said Joan Felix, a handler and instructor with the unit since 2009. The bond between dog and handler is significant in the line of duty. Randall Huyser, a canine instructor since 2013, said: “If the handler has got a facility at home that can accommodate the dog, then it is preferable if they apply to take the dog in. It allows the dog to relax and know the difference between home and work.” The unit now contains 25 dogs in total, all trained for the detection of substances, missing people, and the protection of their handler partners. @Nour__Sal  nour.sallm@inl.co.za  Cape Argus