This according to the Hawks who identified the attacker as 23-year-old Nur Arawal from Somalia. Arawal was an outpatient at Bellville’s Karl Bremer Psychiatric Hospital from 2013 until recently. “The motive for the attack is not yet established, but there are no links to suggest any involvement of extremists or radical activity. Arawal’s remains have been handed over to the family for repatriation and burial,” said Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi. The circumstances surrounding Arawal’s death were being probed by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid), Mulaudzi added. Arawal slit the throats of two people at a Malmesbury mosque early in the morning. He was not known to the community and had reportedly asked for a place to stay overnight. He was travelling home to spend Ramadaan with his family. The attack came just a month after three men stormed a Shia mosque in Verulam, outside Durban, shortly after afternoon prayers and slit the throat of Shaheed Abbas Essop. Two other people were stabbed. The mosque in Malmesbury is a Sunni mosque. Several people were injured in the attack, including the mosque’s imam. Community activist Imran Mukadam’s cousin, Ismail Bassa, was sleeping inside the mosque when the assailant attacked him and two other people. Bassa’s son Faizal tried to stop the attack, but failed. Mukadam said the family was still struggling to come to terms with what happened. “I don’t think this is enough closure for the family, there are too many questions that are still unanswered,” he said. The Muslim Judicial Council (SA) said it was relieved that the Hawks had identified the perpetrator involved in the Malmesbury Mosque attack. “Many rumours have spread regarding the motive for the attack. We hope the outcome of the Hawks investigation brings this matter to a close. “Muslims in South Africa have a rich history of tolerance and harmonious co-existence with other faith communities,” said Secretary-General Shaykh Isgaak Taliep. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus