The Trust’s chairperson Anwar Nagia has rejected the accusations. The two developments are under way, and those seeking land or compensation are unhappy. Tania Kleinhans-Cedras of the District Six Property Owners Advocacy Committee said owners of land that had been gazetted in 1995 had not been compensated. “We are now going to argue for a settlement. If there is not going to be a reasonable settlement in terms of the market value of the land, then we are going to the high court,” she said. More than 300 property owners were still waiting to be compensated. On Saturday the property owners sought legal advice after they discovered developments on parts of their property. One of the two developments is a luxury apartment building in Chapel Street. The other is in Keizergracht. Kleinhans-Cedras said: “That land was sold a long time ago. They are making pools of money from these property owners and no one had the decency to tell them what was going on.”      According to the Restitution of Lands Act, “no person may sell, exchange, donate, lease, subdivide, rezone or develop the land in question without having given the regional land claims commissioner one month’s written notice of his or her intention to do so, and, where such notice was not given in respect of any sale, exchange, donation, lease, subdivision or rezoning of land and the court is satisfied that such sale, exchange, donation, lease, subdivision or rezoning was not done in good faith, the court may set aside such sale, exchange, donation, lease, subdivision or rezoning or grant any other order it deems fit”. Department spokesperson Vuyani Nkasayi said: “Due to the court case the department is currently in, we will not be commenting on any District Six matters.” The aggrieved group’s attorney, Tim Dunn, said: “Developments must be approved by the department for them to go ahead. Its highly prejudicial to my clients for there to be development on their land that they have made gazetted claims (for).” Nagia has rejected the allegations by the claimants, saying they had been part of a public participation process. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus