Dressed in a warm brown suede skirt and jacket suit to ward off the winter chill, grandmother Violet Africa was all smiles as family and friends sang happy birthday to her. A tiara was placed on her head and pink sash draped over her shoulder, as she stood amid colourful balloons. The granny believes she has lived a long and healthy life by being active. “I am very well today. I do not know what my secret to longevity is, but I have always remained active and busy in life, my children being the busy part,” she jokes. She may be 100, but this granny is independent and likes to take walks, although only very short ones. “I loved going to church and went to church every week. However, now that the arthritis in my knees is acting up, the minister from our church comes to my house every Sunday to host a service,” Violet explains. Granny Violet has eight children, 18 grandchildren and 33 great-grandchildren. She was born in Simonstown, but grew up in 35th Avenue in Elsies River. Her husband, to whom she was married for over 34 years, passed away more than 40 years ago. She never remarried. Her granddaughter, Anthea Botha, 42, who was reared by her grandmother since she was 10, says her grandmother didn’t take nonsense. Education “My grandmother is very giving and very strict. I had a curfew. I had to bring guys home so she could check them out first,” Anthea jokes. “The one thing she always told us was get your education. Thus today, her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren all have a good education to their name. “Her words to me were always ‘be pure’. I guess she says that because she always stayed pure,” Anthea says. Asked for a few pearls of wisdom, Violet says: “Study, get an education and always have respect for your elders.” Ward councillor Beverley van Reenen says she is blessed to have Violet in her ward. “Happy 100th birthday, auntie Violet Africa. This is an incredible milestone and I wish you the happiest, healthiest, sweetest, luckiest, brightest, sunniest and best of birthdays. It isn’t every day that someone turns a century,” Van Reenen said.  robin.francke@inl.co.za  Daily Voice