“The mission of the exhibit is for health education, to illustrate healthy and unhealthy organs and how the body looks when functioning in daily life,” Salie- Bassier explained. Raees Daniels, a Grade 7 learner from Fairview Primary School, found the event exciting. “I have learnt a lot. I have learnt things I didn’t know about before. “I want to be a chef because I’m interested in helping people’s organs to function properly with the food that I will be cooking for them,” said Daniels. National Science Week is an annual celebration of science, engineering and technology and attracts thousands of learners and members of the public. They have the opportunity to attend workshops, science shows and lectures which are held at universities, schools, science centres and public facilities countrywide that are hosted by the Department of Science and Technology. Akash Dusrath, manager at the science centre, said the event brings science to life through exhibitions, demonstrations and hands-on experience. “In our communities we tend to make science complicated. But what we’re trying to do at the centre is show learners how wonderful and exciting science is.” The Science Learning Centre for Africa at UWC has scheduled a series of science-enhancement events to promote National Science Week. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. They plan to conduct a science roadshow to schools on the West Coast to promote science and encourage schools to develop science clubs and host science-related activities for learners and teachers. The staff at the centre will host science-related activities and promotions for learners at 11 schools in Langebaan, Lamberts Bay, Clanwilliam and Vredendal. Director of the centre Professor Shaheed Hartley said: “Science and technology are vital drivers of human progress”. @SINSONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus