Cape Town -  A concerned citizen’s call into a local radio station last month on a cold rainy day has today resulted in over 1 000 primary school learners receiving raincoats. The listener phoned in early one morning expressing his concern for the children he saw walking to school in the rain with no protection from the harsh, wet weather conditions. Another listener, Suzanne Ackerman-Berman, transformation director at Pick n Pay, immediately responded with a commitment to find a solution. Within days, Pick n Pay’s clothing buyer and designer had engaged with Arnold Steenkamp from Grabb Uniform – another listener from the show – to design and create raincoats for children walking to and from school. Ackerman-Berman explains that with the support of listeners, over R80 000 has been donated to make the raincoats for the children. Merrydale Primary School in Mitchells Plain was selected as the beneficiary and its 1 140 learners received their raincoats at a surprise handover Tuesday morning. “This is something that was not expected, but well received. It will surely help keep our learners warm and dry when travelling to and from school,” says the school’s principal, Trevor Dilgee. He also joked that the learners can now no longer use the excuse that the rain ruined their homework as the raincoats cover the school bags of learners very well too. 95 raincoats were also given to the Hangberg Pre-Primary School learners in Hout Bay last week. Ackerman-Berman says that the outcome of this project is testament to the difference South Africans can make as a community if we work together. “As we’ve recently celebrated Nelson Mandela’s centenary, it’s even more important we remember to help those who need it in the communities we serve.” She adds that Pick n Pay will continue to co-ordinate the ‘Cover Our Kids’ donations and that one school will be selected at a time so that each learner at the school receives a raincoat. Pick n Pay is urging anyone who would like to get involved. @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus