This was discussed at a public consultations in Airport Industria on Tuesday. The bill released for public comment is aimed at building a long-term transition to a climate-resilient society by lowering our carbon footprint. It proposes that national, provincial and local spheres of government respond by harmonising policies, plans and programmes to mitigate climate change. The bill also proposes that a carbon budget be upheld by individuals to maintain a greenhouse gas threshold. Those who stray from it could be financially penalised. Experts from environmental institutes and organisations questioned why the act is not being pegged at the “right political level” and said the bill was toothless in forcing the private and political sectors to adhere to its policies. “The general problem with the bill is the issue with funding. The only funding talked about is a penalty for non-compliance; we need financial support and resources to comply with measures that we are being asked to take. “The government functions as soon as there is international glamour and stages to comply with, but the moment the international community looks away, things fall away,” said senior researcher in the UCT Energy, Environment and Climate Change group, Dr Britta Rennkamp. DEA chief director for climate change mitigation Deborah Ramalope said many challenges to governance had arisen by responding to climate change. She said South Africa had committed to a just transition to an environmentally sustainable economy, and the proposes and responses mentioned would be taken into consideration when the bill was amended after the public participation process concludes. The department is undertaking a provincial engagement process, with meetings across the province. Members of the public are invited to submit comment to Minister of Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa by August 8. To find out more about the bill and its specifications, visit www.environment.gov.za/sites/default/files/legislations/ climatechangebill2018_gn41689.pdf @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus