While no information has been forthcoming from the family of wealthy businessman Liaqat Parker, it is believed that  the 65-year-old was abducted yesterday morning. Parker is the founder member of the Foodprop Group, which owns the Foodworld chain of supermarkets. He also sits on the board of investment group Brimstone. He and his brother Rashied are partners in a company called FPG Property Fund. Police confirmed the kidnapping. “SAPS Western Cape Provincial Detectives are seeking the assistance of the public in tracing the whereabouts of a 65-year-old businessman, who was allegedly kidnapped by five unknown males at his business on Monday at about 09.10am,” police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said. According to information Parker was driving into the basement parking of his business premises in Stairway Close, De Greens, Parow, when an unknown double-cab LDV followed and at the gate the suspects forced the security guard at gunpoint into the toilet where they took his cellular telephone and locked him up. They then went into the basement where they forced Parker into their vehicle and drove off. Van Wyk said a case of armed robbery and kidnapping was registered for investigation. “The circumstances surrounding the disappearance are still unknown at this stage as the investigation continues. Anyone with information regarding the suspects or who witnessed the incident, is kindly requested to contact the investigation officer, Detective Constable Chesron de Vries on 082 493 8472 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111,” Van Wyk said. Lawyer and family spokesperson for the Parker family Walied Brown said: “I can’t comment on how the family is doing as I haven’t spoken to them. They have asked for time and space. I also don’t have any details, I’ve only read what has already been reported and can’t comment thereon.” This is the latest kidnapping of prominent businessmen in Cape Town in recent years. So far four businessmen have been kidnapped and returned to their families after presumably paying a ransom. Sadeck Zhaun Ahmed, the owner 
of Zhauns Business Opportunity 
Machines, was kidnapped last July outside his business in Victoria Road, Salt River. Ahmed was allegedly abducted by four men. He was eventually returned to his family last October. According to his family, Ahmed was blindfolded the entire time and did not know where he was held nor who his abductors were. The family said no ransom was paid and that Ahmed was released “as his abductors were concerned about consequences of his deteriorating health”. In 2016 prominent businessman Naushad Deshmukh Khan was allegedly kidnapped outside his business in Athlone. Khan, the owner of Eastern wear clothing store Khan’s, in Hadji Ebrahim Crescent, was apparently abducted on November 1, 2016, by five armed men. Two months later, the businessman was dropped off in Thornton and went to knock at someone’s door. After Khan’s return, his family apparently closed ranks while police were also tight-lipped about the investigation. The other kidnapped businessman was Bangladeshi businessman Mustapha Goolam. In 2016 Goolam’s kidnappers demanded a R10million ransom for his safe return. Three men were arrested after police traced Goolam, 38, to a house in Khayelitsha. The Muslim Judicial Council said they are dismayed at the kidnapping of Parker. “Our thoughts and duas (prayers) are with the family during this challenging time. May Allah Almighty allow the authorities to find him swiftly and protect our businessmen and women,” the statement said. Muslim advocacy group Jamiatul Ulama’s secretary-general, EL Bham has expressed concerns over the recent kidnappings. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus