In what is set to be a heated council meeting on the July 26, both the heads of De Lille and Smit will be on the chopping block. There is however still room for the motion against De Lille to be cancelled, as it needs to be approved by the DA caucus who is meeting today, 16 July. Smit said: “I have received both motions. It is set to go through the normal council processes and the full council will have to vote on both motions.” The motion against Smit was submitted by the ANC. Xolani Sotashe, ANC leader in council, said: “Many of you (the media) have seen the way he handles meetings. Speakers especially those of the opposition parties get cut off when they speak, microphones are simply switched off and the man is crude. He cannot be impartial and handle matters of council in an impartial manner. He always favours the DA, never really listens to other parties and flouts council rules.” Sources within the DA caucus said there are strong calls for Smit to be ousted as there are many councillors fed-up with Smit’s way of handling meetings. A motion on De Lille is also on the cards and several informed sources said De Lille’s supporters could likely support a motion against Smit if the motion against De Lille succeeds. “The notion that the mayor does not have support is simply untrue. “There are many who now support her after the court case because many saw what was really going on,” a source said. Councillor Marian Nieuwoudt, one of the senior councillors, submitted a motion on behalf of the DA for the motion. Niewoudt’s request was supported by Kraaifontein councillor Brenda Hansen. “A crucial test of any leader is the confidence their followers have in their leadership. No person can lead an institution without the support of its membership. “Ms De Lille over the past year has been mired in controversy. “This coupled with various instances of intimidating, belittling, condescending, demeaning, intolerant and unbecoming behaviour towards fellow councillors and other officials is a clear testament of her weak leadership.” There is however confusion around the De Lille-motion, as it needs to be discussed and voted on in the DA’s caucus before going to council. De Lille would not be drawn on the motion. “I will not be providing any comment at this stage. I will wait for the DA Caucus meeting on Monday,” she said. JP Smith, deputy DA caucus leader did not reply to messages sent to him. The DA’s caucus is set to go ahead today. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus