The houses built in 2013 have mould and cracks which allow rainwater and draughts inside. A group of more than 10 residents, who call themselves “community speak-outs” are unhappy and concerned about the state of Pelican Park RDP houses. Berenice Halifax and her family moved to Pelican Park in 2013, but have since found it difficult to live in the house. “This house has many faults like mould, cracks, bathroom taps that are not functioning and some power plugs are not working. “It’s just five years and already there are cracks and mould. “How are we going to maintain the house, because some of us are unemployed and are pensioners?” said Halifax. According to the architectures’ planning, approved by the city council on February 2, 2013, shows that Pelican Park houses were supposed to have solar geysers. Another resident, Eleanor Hoedemaker said, “After heavy rains, the house smells badly,” she said Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, spokesperson for Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, said the department did not receive any formal complaints. Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said, “beneficiaries are reminded that when they receive their Breaking New Ground houses, they become property owners and they are therefore responsible for managing and maintaining their homes”. Herron said he visited some of the houses with the ward councillor and received positive feedback from some of the residents. “I am not aware of the complaints. “I did receive some minor complaints during my visit but these amounted to repairs and maintenance matters and not structural defects,” said Herron. “Defects reported during the warranty period were attended to by the contractor, after that period the homeowner became responsible for any repairs needed as is the case with any other homeowner. “We are prohibited by law from spending any city funds on private property,” he said. “National Housing subsidy for Breaking New Ground houses does not make provision for the installation of geysers. “The purpose of indicating the recommended location for a geyser on the building plans is to assist beneficiaries in the event that they decide on having a geyser installed at their houses.” @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus