Bradley Fredericks, 41, had been missing since July 9. He was found two weeks later, on Sunday, in a shallow grave in Bergsig Street, about 2km from his Orpheus Crescent home in Mitchells Plain. On Tuesday, his accused killers, Igshaan Hendricks - the tenant - and two other co-accused, Rashaad September and Nishaad Wessels, appeared in the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court facing a charge of premeditated murder. In court, the trio had to indicate whether they wanted an SA Legal Aid lawyer or would be hiring their own defence lawyer. Hendricks, who handed himself over to police the day the body was discovered, said he would consult with his father about hiring his own lawyer. The State has already indicated it would be opposing the trio’s bail. The matter was postponed to July 30 for a bail profile as well as to hire an attorney for Hendricks. Fredericks last communicated with his family on July 12, and a church warden, Natalie Bent, said she last spoke to him on July 8. Bent said Fredericks often assisted the church and she grew worried when he failed to reply to her messages. “I contacted a lady who lives close to him and she contacted his sister, Hayley,” she said. Hendricks, his wife and two children moved in with Fredericks in January. Bent said when people came to look for Fredericks, Hendricks would tell them he was away in Worcester. CPF spokesperson Anthea van der Vent said on Friday when they arrived at Frederick’s home, the furniture was missing. They later learnt from neighbours that the microwave was sold for R150. A missing person’s docket was opened and on Saturday the Dog Unit was brought to the house to search. Nothing was found, but Van der Vent said they noticed a hole had been dug in the yard and filled with clothes. “On Sunday at around 5pm the community joined in the search. We got information leading us to the bushes at Harmony Village (and found the body).” Van der Vent said September and Wessels were known gang members. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus