That’s the warning from DA Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela after Max’s announcement that he had accepted an appointment as special adviser to Police Minister Bheki Cele. Madikizela said the situation would be untenable as Max, who was still a DA member, was working for an ANC national police minister. “There are three things I took from his press conference. He said that he is not an ANC member, yet he spoke of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Thuma Mina campaign, and if you are an adviser to a minister that means you share the political and ideological views of that minister. “He must really just do us a favour and confirm that the ANC is his new political home,” Madikizela said. Madikizela confirmed that Max had resigned as a member of the Western Cape Legislature, but not as a DA member. Max said it was up to the DA to make a decision on his future in the party. “It is really up to them to decide. They have the recall clause and can recall me like they did with Patricia (de Lille),” he quipped. He said there should be no conflict of interests from his new appointment. “At this stage, I am an DA member. I am not an ANC member yet. But I really foresee no problem. We have seen people like Vusi Pikoli who is working for the provincial government,” he said. Pikoli, however, was not a political appointee, but applied for the position of Western Cape Police Ombudsman. Max resigned from the provincial legislature on Saturday and when he said he was asked by Cele to take up the new position, he replied without hesitation “thuma mina” (send me) - Ramaphosa’s and now the ANC’s catch phrase. Max is a former provincial police commissioner in the Western Cape. “Crime doesn’t differentiate between political, gender and religious lines. They know my passion for what I do is not a job but like a lifestyle.“My decision was also borne from the frustration for not being allowed to use my skills and experience to curb crime in the province, as a trained police officer.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus