In Mboniswa’s view, democracy has not delivered all that South Africans require to create economic equality between races, or true national independence from the West. According to his book, Rainbow Nation: The Propaganda of Democracy, Mboniswa argues that, although the black population have received equal rights, racism remains prominent in South Africa. Discussing his book, Mboniswa said, “Racism is institutional. It’s in our universities, it’s in our workplace, it’s in our society. I believe that democracy hasn’t prioritised the way we think towards each other.” As a pan-Africanist, Mboniswa is adamant that knowledge and power are crucial to advancing South African society further - something which is lacking among the black population: “Power is science. If you don’t understand the science of power, you will never be powerful. Hence, black communities are still powerless because they don’t understand power.” Academics offer a different opinion on the issue, suggesting that South Africa’s inequalities is a result of many complex issues. Distinguished professor in political science at Stellenbosch University, Professor Amanda Gouws, says, “South Africa needs to take into consideration that we are the most unequal country in the world. Democracy is about equal riches, right distribution and justice. There’s an issue in the market in that it excludes marginalised people.” It remains that one of South Africa’s biggest issues is racism. Professor Gouws contends that, “If we can overcome racism this would be a great country. But we haven’t. We haven’t even begun to talk about racism”. Director of the Institute for Futures Research, Dr Morne Mostert, agrees: “We’re extremely unequal, but we’re fighting racism by constantly highlighting racism. And it’s this exploitation of racism which creates an environment that perpetuates the behaviour of those in power.” Opinion is divided, but what prevails is a sense of importance around discussing the political landscape. As the nation unites to celebrate Nelson Mandela’s legacy, different cultures come together to remember South Africa’s most famous figure - suggesting optimism for the prosperity of the nation. @peter197t  peter.thomas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus