Residents are claiming that they are being “abused” by Communicare, from which they are renting housing. “Communicare is charging them abnormal amounts for rent. Communicare has rented its properties to tenants for between five and 26 years without transfer of ownership to them,” resident Neville Petersen said. Some tenants were forced to pay estimated and inaccurate water bills while the City of Cape Town had water meters installed in their areas, he said. “We have reported this conduct of Communicare to the provincial Department of Human Settlements but nothing happened. We tried to get a meeting with MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela three times but they couldn't take place. The department gave us forms to submit to the tribunal for assessment. It's not helping. We face exploitation daily." Communicare is an incorporated association not for gain. It provides housing for economically disadvantaged Western Cape citizens. It has emerged that these residents face a rent increase that most cannot afford. “The main issues affecting tenants renting Communicare properties is lack of maintenance, poor management of retirement homes, free-standing homes and flats and elderly people paying more than 50% of their pension towards social sharing facilities. Free-standing house tenants are paying their own water and sewage bills which have escalated to ridiculous, inconsistent amounts." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Among their demands are that lease agreements be scrapped and the housing units be transferred to the tenants, the rent increases be scrapped, water and sewage charges be itemised and all arrears payments be scrapped. Stakeholders and relations manager for Communicare, Michelle Matthee, said: “Communicare has been engaging with all our tenants over the past two months regarding 2018 rent increases. Many tenants expressed the need for further engagement on rentals, maintenance and the terms of their leases. Tenants have petitioned us to acquire the titles of the units they rent. However we focus on providing rental housing." @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus