The Bisho High Court ruled certain aspects of the norms and standards legislation unconstitutional. Four months ago, EE had approached the courts to compel the government to meet its school infrastructure targets set to fulfil the rights to dignity, equality, education and the best interests of the child. This ruling has a direct impact on the dilapidated Uitsig High School in Cape Town which has been closed. The school has previously been described as a “war zone” due to its damaged state. A previous Cape Argus story also reported that learners' parents were issued with letters from the department to enrol their children elsewhere as "it's no longer safe for them at the school". On Thursday acting Judge Nomawabo Msizi ruled that a clause which stated that implementation of the set norms and standards was subject to resources and co-operation from other government agencies responsible for infrastructure was unconstitutional and in violation of the SA Schools Act 84 of 1996. Judge Msizi ordered that all schools and classes built from mud, asbestos, metal and wood be prioritised and built with proper materials within three years from the date of publication of the regulations. Based on the existing legislation, published in 2013, the deadline was November 2016. EE had requested that the department release reports and all infrastructure plans biannually. The judge said it was unconstitutional for only the minister to receive the reports, and for them not to be made public. EE, in a statement, said: “This momentous victory has strengthened the ability of pupils, teachers, parents, communities and civil society organisations to hold the State to its duty of protecting pupils’ right to dignity, equality and education. “Victories such as this validate the necessity of organising young people to demand rights that would otherwise not be freely afforded to them. “We will not back down from the fight for quality school infrastructure.” Section27 spokesperson Zukiswa Pikoli said: “The judgment affirms that government has an unequivocal obligation to provide safe and adequate school infrastructure as a component of the right to basic education in terms of the constitution. “It also affirms that this obligation is immediately realisable and any failure to meet the obligation must be justified in full by the government.” Education Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said the department had noted the judgment. “The judgment comes at a time when the department was at the final stages of concluding amendments to the regulation on the norms and standards for school infrastructure provision. “We will study the judgment with a view to incorporating the court ruling into the changes currently under way,” he said. Mhlanga said many projects were currently at construction phase, but some implementing agents were letting the department down, resulting in the cancellation of contracts and reallocation of work to other companies. He said 5225 maintenance projects were under way around the country and the Eastern Cape had by March 2018 already exhausted its maintenance budget. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus