This is according to Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde. Cape Town International Airport has been nominated once again for the top airport in Africa award, while the Cape Town Cruise Terminal features in the leading cruise port category. Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) is also in the running for the leading meetings and conferences venue in Africa. According to the latest State of Cape Town Central City Report, the CTICC’s economic contribution to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) for the last financial year was R3.7 billion and contributed R3.1bn to the Western Cape GDP, hosted a total of 482 events and created 7824 jobs. Cape Town is shortlisted in the leading city category, as well as in the leading festival and events destination and the meetings and conferences destination. Table Mountain and the V&A Waterfront are both in the running for the leading tourist attraction in Africa, in a category that also includes Mount Kilimanjaro and the Masai Mara Game Reserve in Kenya. Several hotels and accommodation establishments across the Cape Town CBD, in the winelands and in the Garden Route have also been shortlisted in the many accommodation categories. Winde said tourism in the province came under pressure in the past year because of the drought, but the industry worked hard to save water and jobs. That the province featured in so many of the categories was testament to the hard work of the people in the industry and the excellent experiences and value that the Western Cape offered to travellers. “I am pleased to see that both our airport and our cruise terminal have made the shortlist as this is often the very first experience people have of our city. “I am also pleased to see accommodation establishments from the Cape Town CBD, Hermanus, Robertson, Paarl, George and Knysna all feature in the listings, as this shows excellence exists in tourism experiences across the province,” said Winde. The awards are based on a public vote and members of the public can cast votes for the African categories until August 19. Winde encouraged Western Cape residents and visitors to register to vote for their favourites. “The tourism industry contributes so much in terms of the economy, and the creation of jobs but it also helps create experiences and memories.” Votes can be cast by registering at www.worldtravelawards.com/vote @TheCapeArgus  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus