The changes in the bill will mean that schools may permit the sale and consumption of alcohol on public school premises or at a school activity, pupils found guilty of serious misconduct may be sent to intervention facilities, education MECs may establish a school evaluation authority which will independently evaluate schools and develop school evaluation reports, and provisions have been made for the establishment of collaboration schools and donor-funded schools. The SA  Democratic Teachers Union said the proposed amendments were variously unlawful, contrary to the spirit of democracy and redress in education, redundant, unlikely to improve educational outcomes and potentially directly harmful. Sadtu provincial secretary Jonovan Rustin said several aspects of the bill were in contradiction with existing national legislation. In its submission it said there were several issues with donor-funded schools. Teachers union Naptosa Western Cape raised issues with the intervention facilities for problematic pupils. “We note the intention of the minister, but cannot comment further until appropriate regulations regarding this section come into the consultation domain. “We believe such facilities, if created, must be residential so that pupils escape harmful home environments. “These facilities must pay appropriate attention to separation of pupils by age and gender. They must also not become colleges for training criminals. “We note that it is expected that violence and drug-related offenders may be the bulk of such referrals. “In such institutions, educators and PS staff employed there may be in need of incentive payments,” it said. ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said: “The Western Cape is already suffering an alcohol epidemic for reasons that are widely known. What is really surprising that instead of championing for alcohol-free schools the DA MEC is actually calling for more alcohol
consumption.” “According to the last budget vote of the Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo, the consequences of alcohol abuse are already putting an enormous burden on the healthcare budget to the tune of billions.” Education MEC Debbie Shäfer said: “Let us better regulate what is already happening and not try to limit adult choices exercised in a responsible manner. “To underscore the hypocrisy of Jacobs and his party, why is it that one of the ANC’s own branches recently advertised for a fund-raiser for the Ward 6 ANC branch at Lückhoff High School in Stellenbosch, telling people to ‘bring their own XYZ’?” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus