Sindiswa Gangqa, 59, who used her hands to crawl around her house, drag herself across the floor, do work and sweep her floor, now is happy with her new wheelchair. Her neighbour, Siyabonga Mbiko, approached the Cape Argus at the beginning of July and expressed his frustration and pleaded for help for Gangqa, who has been crawling around her informal settlement in Green Point, Khayelitsha, over the years. A good Samaritan, who asked to remain anonymous, read the article and took it upon himself to assist the Gangqa family by buying a new wheelchair. “I was touched by this situation after I read about it in your paper and I was keen to assist the family with a wheelchair,” said the donor. He added: “I take joy in helping the needy, as a man of God. We must do what God would like everyone to do, which is helping those in need.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to the family, many people visited to assess the situation. West Coast TVET College also visited the family and promised to bring other items to help the family and pave the way for Gangqa’s wheelchair. Wesley Kelly of West Coast College was shocked by the situation and was touched by the shack that Gangqa stays in. “We as West Coast College also went to assess the situation of Sindiswa and we did not like what we saw,” said Kelly. “We managed to do measurements to assist and renovate her shack with ceiling boards and pave a way for her wheelchair,” he said. The family heartily thanked the wheelchair donor and those who are still helping them. Gangqa is comfortably seated and getting accustomed to her wheels. “I don’t know whether to laugh or cry, I am blown away. I am very grateful to those who open their hearts for people like us,” she said. Mbiko extended his sincere gratitude to those who opened their hearts to help Gangqa with the wheelchair. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus