“The people need that piece of land because they’re tired of paying rent they can’t afford it any more,” community leader Daniel Nomavila said. On Sunday, frustrated residents attempted to erect their structures on the piece of land. Law enforcement then arrived and dismantled their structures. Minutes later, Ward Councillor Gerry Gordon arrived and her car was set alight. “Why was she there if she didn’t call law enforcement then who did?” Nomavila said. RELATED - WATCH: Councillor taken hostage and car burnt in Vrygrond He said Gordon’s surprise visit had enraged the community, prompting them to set her car alight and hold her hostage. Residents are adamant that they want to build on the piece of land, which is believed to belong to a neighbouring nature reserve. Ownership is believed to be the subject of a legal dispute. The protest began in April, after residents complained of overcrowding at Vrygrond and lack of access to land. Residents barricaded roads and looted a Pick * Pay liquor store. Former Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille intervened. However, she failed to ease tension in the area. De Lille said the piece of land could not be occupied because it was declared a nature reserve in 2016. “We need to build on that piece of land because we have no other alternative. There’s a huge difference between need and want - the people of Vrygrond need to build on that land,” Nomavila said. READ MORE - WATCH: Vrygrond housing protest continues Gordon has disputed claims that she is responsible for calling law enforcement on residents who attempted to illegally occupy Xakabantu. “I went to the community because I saw a fire which was close to the nature reserve, and then when I arrived I was told that there were structures,” Gordon said. She said residents approached her and held her hostage, barring her from leaving the area. “At that moment many things go through your mind, but then you have to reason with them and explain to them,” she said. Gordon that this would not prevent her from doing her job. “I am a councillor you cannot just close off a community when these things happen. Unfortunately, I cannot say what my next plan is with regard to Vrygrond,” she said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus