CAPE TOWN - With the royal wedding fever between Prince Harry of Wales and actress Meghan Markle in the air, British Airways (BA) in partnership with The Independent Traveller is celebrating in royal style by offering two lucky couples a royal treatment in Cape Town. The royal wedding between Prince Harry of Wales and Markle which is set to take place on May 19 at the Windsor Castle in England has everyone in a royal flurry. British Airways has also jumped onto the royal rush and is offering two lucky couples a royal break, courtesy of The Twelve Apostles Hotel and Spa, Avis car rental and Cape Town Tourism. BA is inviting South Africans to enter the #BARoyalty competition and win a luxury weekend in Cape Town from May 18 until May 20, 2018. “One lucky lady and gentleman, along with their partners will experience luxury fit for a prince and princess with prizes sponsored by The Twelve Apostles, Luxury car rental from Avis car rental, NAC Helicopters, Groot Constantia and Cape Town Tourism”, said BA. The winners will enjoy two nights of accommodation at The Twelve Apostles Hotel along with breakfast. Winners will also be treated to a head and shoulder massage and will have access to the temperature-controlled plunge pools and salt water floatation pool. Other royal treatments include: -A 3-course dinner from a choice select menu in the Azure Restaurant or The Café Grill, once during your stay. -A private movie in the hotel’s 16-seater in-house cinema enjoyed with popcorn and candy -A Groot Constantia route experience that includes a chocolate and wine pairing -A 12-minute sightseeing tour by NAC helicopters with undisturbed views of Signal Hill, Lion’s Head and Table Mountain peeking out above them -A complimentary luxury weekend rental in a Mercedes Benz C-Class by Avis car rental How to enter the competition: All entrants have to do is proclaim their love for British Airways in the form of a unique poem. This can be a short and sweet poem and as funny as you’d like. Follow these easy 4 steps: 1.Record a 30-second video of yourself reciting your poem or submit a written post on social media 2.Upload your video or post on social networking sites, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. 3.Tag @British_Airways (Twitter) OR @Britishairways (Facebook) in your post on your wall and include the hashtags #IndependentTraveller #BARoyalty 4.The three videos/written submissions with the most reactions will go into British Airways’ inbox to select the winner. Winners will be announced on May 12, in the Independent Traveller and on social media. READ ALSO: British Airways unofficially inaugurates President Cyril Ramaphosa on-board ALSO READ: British Airways WhatsApp chain message a hoax TOP STORY: KPMG in battle to survive in SAfrica - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE