The group, who held up posters with slogans stating “Decriminalise Fees Must Fall” and “UCT and exploitation”, formed part of the protest by the Left Students Forum, SA Public Service Union and other unions. According to protester Phakamani Ntentema, they staged Monday’s disruption to highlight issues of exploitative labour practices, unfair appointment of the deputy vice-chancellor and criminal charges against #FeesMustFall activists. RELATED: UCT vice-chancellor's job 'harder than Bafana Bafana coach' Ntentema said it was a perfect chance for the public to hear of the UCT community’s dissatisfaction under the leadership of Price and for incoming VC Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng to know the key issues they were facing. “Max Price has been the VC who knew the struggles. It was a sign that he hasn’t done justice to workers and students, especially the ones facing Fees Must Fall charges while the ex-president has approved of free education for the poor. “He has legitimised the student struggle,” said Ntentema. Despite the protesters, many others expressed their thanks and admiration for Price, who they credited for bringing about transformation on the campus during his tenure. They expressed their gratitude towards him when he walked through the crowd of students after the protest and spent time taking selfies with them. Student Representative Council president Mthobisi Mngomezulu thanked Price for his work and highlighted a number of the programmes and initiatives spearheaded by him over the years, which included a Classroom Renewal Project and a Curriculum Change Working Group, which explored the curriculum. Former public protector and professor at Stellenbosch University Thuli Madonsela also tweeted, saying: “Wishing a happy and rewarding future to Dr Max Price of UCT. Thanks for giving your best shot to transformation of higher education at a time of enormous turbulence and distrust. Good wishes to the incoming VC, Prof Mamokgethi Phakeng.” UCT spokesperson Nombuso Shabalala said the university respected the right of students to protest, but was disappointed that students who had gathered to recognise the chancellor’s contribution were not able to hear his speech. “The singing made it impossible for the event to continue and as a result, the event was cut short. However, the VC was able to walk into the crowd and multiple students approached him, thanked him, took selfies with him and generally expressed their gratitude and respect to him. “He stayed for about 45 minutes, mingling with students who wanted to express their thanks,”said Shabalala. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus