This emerged during Paarl MediClinic physician Doctor Craig Franklin’s testimony in the trial of Taariq Phillips, who is accused of raping and murdering his girlfriend Chauhan. Franklin, who treated Chauhan, told the Western Cape High Court the patient died at midnight on January 1, 2014 from multiple organ failure. “It wasn’t nice to lose this person. This was only one of the several people our hospital was involved with who came from this very same party, even after I contacted the organisers to urge them to stop the thing - and I would very much like the police to get to the core of this matter and get rid of these elements in Paarl,” he said. ALSO READ: UWC law student who died at a rave was strangled - doctor Chauhan and Phillips attended the rave party on New Year’s Eve in 2013. It is alleged that at around midnight, Phillips, Chauhan and some friends took ecstasy and LSD, commonly known as acid. Chauhan started feeling sick, experienced seizures and was rushed to hospital. Franklin said when he arrived at the hospital at 4.30am on January 1, 2014, Chauhan was incubated but was breathing on her own. He said he put her on a ventilating machine. “She had bruises on her pelvis and knees and a small puncture mark in the neck, which was a small hole and bigger than the size of a needle,” he said. He said he was told Chauhan had consumed LSD and ecstasy. He said Chauhan had acidosis, meaning the hydrogen ions had increased and that pH and bicarbonate ions were decreased. Chauhan had a low pH of 7.2, which is below the minimum level of 7.35. “She also had convulsions. Her sugar level was low and she had high potassium in her blood,” said the doctor. By midday, Chauhan was developing a blood disorder and was bleeding and suffering from renal failure. She also had severe blood clotting. Franklin said he did a five-panel urine drug test: “It showed she was positive for a sedative type - we interpreted it as medication she had been given by paramedics. We also tested for cocaine or marijuana but we only found positive for opiates. “Indication of LSD and ecstasy would have been expected on the five-panel test, but it didn’t show We nearly saved her, had it not been for acidosis. We managed to get the blood disorder reversed and honestly thought we were going to win. “I thought she was going to take a turn for the better,” said Franklin. The case continues. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus