The DA hit back, saying their huge investments in youth development, youth centres, internships and job opportunities had changed the plight of many poor young people in the province. Social ills in the Western Cape were debated in the legislature on Thursday at the request of the ANC. Maurencia Gillion, ANC MPL, said 2018 marked the tail end of the DA administration’s term and the decade of misrule was representative of a period of regression in service delivery for the poor. READ MORE: #DeLille rejects DA’s olive branch “Reality is that this protracted period of disservice to our people has been marked by deteriorating living conditions for the poor and marginalised. The most pressing challenges faced by the people in the province include inadequate living conditions, crime, poverty, dread diseases and unemployment. These challenges seem to be colour-conscious as they affect the black majority while the minority is well taken care of. “The flooding and informal settlement fires will continue to kill people for as long as the DA remains in power, as its only response to the housing crisis is sending people to Wolwerivier and Blikkiesdorp,” Gillion said. Daylin Mitchell, DA MPL, said the DA-led provincial government worked with NGOs, the City of Cape Town, recreational hubs, neighbourhood schools’ programmes and many other organisations to the benefit of young people. “The aim of this government is to ensure that by age 25, the youth are inspired, educated, responsible, independent, healthy and productive citizens with positive personal, family and social relations through five pillars: family foundations, education, economic opportunities, identity and belonging and reconnection,” he said. Mitchell also said the provincial government’s 2017/18 goal was that 85 000 pupils had regular and consistent attendance at quality after-school programmes. WATCH: #DeLille: No one is above the DA, Maimane tells Cape DA stronghold “By the end of the 2017/18 financial year, 85%, or 72 043, learners were attending regularly and consistently, with a 70%+ attendance rate,” he added. He also said the premier’s advancement of youth (PAY) project had provided work experience in the public sector for young people. “It has provided 2 251 internships so far; contributing mentoring, career guidance, on-the-job training and general exposure to skills training in one of our 13 provincial departments,” Mitchell said. Ferlon Christians, ACDP MPL, said due to irresponsible fiscal behaviour and political instability, residents were now suffering. “We don’t even know who the real mayor of Cape Town is “The budget has to be passed and Mayco members do not even know if they have jobs People are suffering, because of all this instability The instability is unbearable,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus