Residents watched as 60 000 families in District Six were uprooted and, in the words of a famous song of a musical dedicated to the area, “scattered like the wind”, to Cape Flats townships like Hanover Park, Lavender Hill and Bonteheuwel. What saved the Bo-Kaap was that most of its residents were Muslim, ancestors of slaves, exiles and banned religious leaders from the East. RELATED: Bo-Kaap protesters backed The National Party, having wreaked havoc with coloured and African communities who lived near the CBD, declared it a residential area exclusively for Cape Muslims. Bo-Kaap is steeped in history and tradition. The first freed slaves lived there. It was where Islam took root. The first mosque was built there. It was where the first great Muslim leaders in South Africa are buried.  It is sadly ironic that an area that survived apartheid may not survive the scourge of 21st-century city living: gentrification. The Bo-Kaap, with its exclusive location, distinct architecture and its colourful houses, is under threat. Those residents who see it as home, and who want to live here for the rest of their lives, are watching helplessly as their rates and costs of other services soar because property prices in the area are spiralling. It is the epitomé of a vicious cycle, where rich people offer residents prices they would never dream of for their houses where more rich people follow where the value of property increases and rates go up and where older residents find they can no longer afford to live in the area. Suddenly, there is a real danger that the area will lose its identity. It is an ugly, recurring story. The City of Cape Town, which is not helping matters by granting permission to developers to construct expensive apartments nearby, needs to step in. City councillors need to be reminded it has a duty to the poor of Cape Town. It is a disgrace that they have done nothing to dismantle apartheid spatial planning. Bo-Kaap offers them an ideal opportunity to protect the homes and livelihood of a poor community living close to the city centre. We urge them to act. Now. Cape Argus