On Friday, unions said they were ready to reach an agreement after employers offered 9% increase for this year and an 8% increase next year. The stumbling block was when the increases would be put into effect. SA Transport and Allied Workers Union spokesperson Zanele Sabela said employers were not willing to pay the agreed 9% increment from April 1. “We are now going to meet as a union and discuss the way forward. We need to come up with a solution.” READ MORE - End of the road in sight for Cape Town #BusStrike Transport Omnibus Workers Union spokesperson Chris Fredericks said he hoped an agreement would be reached with employers by the end of the weekend. “The employers are reluctant to backdate payment to April 1. The agreement has always been for April, and not May. This is nothing new to employers,” he said. Fredericks said despite the strike being on a no work, no pay basis, workers expected the increment to reflect on their payslips. “It is okay if the salaries are cut because bus drivers did not work the full month of April, we understand that, but we want the increase to reflect on our salaries. This is a small, little niggle and I am certain an agreement will be signed soon,” he said. The unions said they were aware the industrial strike had a negative impact on commuters, but said they had been communicating with passengers to explain their plight. “Passengers understand what we are going through. We apologise for the hardship that they face without buses, but this a fight that we have to go through,” said Fredericks. SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council general secretary Gary Wilson said he had sent employers an offer to consider and was awaiting their response. RELATED - #BusStrike: Union rejects pay offer to bus drivers “The problem is, even if the workers get paid, they will still feel the pinch for a very long time. The salaries that they do get will probably be for half of the month of April and half-payment for May, too. They have pension funds, loans, medical aids and other debits that could be in arrears. So its a financial obstacle that they will feel for a few months,” he said. Acting chairperson of the portfolio committee on labour Sharome van Schalkwyk welcomed the fact the offer generally found support among the general membership of the unions. “We urge all the stakeholders to find each other on the matter of backdating the increases to April 1. If the important issues had been agreed to, surely this issue should be tackled with ease and should not unnecessarily prolong the industrial action,” she said. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus