And so, with an unfinished extension to her home in Paarl, a barely functional chest freezer and a few extra pots in which to cook food, Tannie Magda’s Soup Kitchen was born. “We started with a small pot. And just to see the joy that plate of food brought to those in need inspired us to do more. That small pot became a bigger pot, and then it grew into several pots, and now we’re serving vetkoek with the food,” she told the Cape Argus on Sunday. RELATED: Lucky mom wins trip to Turkey “To see the joy on the faces of the people we help on a daily basis makes me realise how blessed we are.” Tannie Magda serviced as many people as she could within the communities, and soon identified other needs. She began helping young, single moms with their children, bathing and clothing them, and teaching them how to care for their kids. “Many of them didn’t know how to care for their children, so they see me almost like their collective grandmother. “We try to impart our skills and our love and they, in turn, show that love towards their children.” In 2016, Heart FM came to visit when the radio station prepared for its 16 Days For Youth campaign, during which the station shut down its Green Point studios and broadcast from various venues across the Western Cape. “You know, we were so blessed to have Heart FM here. Denver (Apollus, programming manager) came here one day to visit and said they would be back. “They came in the morning, and suddenly people came from everywhere to help us. “When people hear about us, they just come and get involved. Many people want to help by donating, but we don’t let them just drop things off. We inspire them to give back to their communities and work with us, and get involved in the process of cooking and feeding.” READ MORE: Denver wears heart on his sleeve Heart FM was “sent by the Lord to bless us”, Tannie Magda said. “It’s like the Lord sent them. Since Heart FM came here, we’ve been able to help so many more people.” Tannie Magda’s Soup Kitchen feeds communities as far as Stellenbosch and Tulbagh; wherever there is a need, she is there to pay it forward. “It makes it worthwhile when you see the thankfulness on people’s faces. That plate of food makes a massive difference.” Heart FM embarks on the third annual 16 Days For Youth roadshow on June 1. Visit 16daysforyouth.com for more information, or follow the Cape Argus’s social media platforms to keep track of the journey. @lancethewitten  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus