Cape Town - Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille visited the Elsies River community of Uitsig on Wednesday. She was there to inspect the installation of water samrt boxes which provide backyarders with free running water. "The City of Cape Town is currently installing taps with running water to 232 backyard dwellings in Uitsig. These taps are connected to a smart box that enables a family living in the backyard to access 200 litres of water per day.      "Previously, backyard dwellers were dependent on the water allocations of residents living in the main house on the property. With the smart box, each tap only releases water when a special key is inserted. "So far, the City has installed taps and smart boxes at 67 properties in Uitsig during the past month. Contractors are also busy upgrading infrastructure in the community to enable the City to install flushing toilets in each of the 232 backyards," De Lille said. "The City is expected to spend R5.4 million to provide water and sanitation services to backyarders in Uitsig. During the current financial year, the City allocated R233.4 million for the installation and maintenance of sanitation facilities to residents living in backyards or informal settlements in areas across the city. "Over the next three financial years until 2021, the City plans to spend more than R850 million on informal settlements upgrades and backyarder services. "Today I met some of the residents benefiting from the City’s efforts. Johnny Smith, 62, a grandfather from Uitsig, told me about his plans to revive his own vegetable garden. Another resident, Reginald Lucas, 53, says his family’s life is now easier that they have access to cooking water instead of being reliant on the main house for water. "It is heart-warming to know that the City’s efforts are improving the lives of our most vulnerable residents. This programme speaks to the City’s aim to build a caring city and our goals outlined in the Organisational Development and Transformation Plan to be more customer-centric. The City of Cape Town is providing basic services to people living in backyards while those who qualify wait for formal housing opportunities," she said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus