The campaign, which was launched earlier this year, called for anyone to submit nominees of heroes in their community who make a difference in the lives of others. After sifting through hundreds of entrants, three participants were chosen as this week’s winners for their outstanding work in their community. Hero Alison Alexander from Goodwood, who runs a safe house called Rainbow of Hope, was chosen for her outstanding assistance in helping children in need. READ: Mister bean wants another shot at World Barista Championships Alexander cares for abandoned and abused children, providing them with a home away from home. She has an adoptive daughter and other children placed in her care by the court and fights to ensure that each child is given the opportunity to make something of their lives. “We create futures for those who don’t have any. The youngest children are 2 and 9 and they were babies when they came here. This is what I do, what God called me to do. I was also abused and with what I know today I can help others.” Another hero is Evariste Umba, who heads the Life Change NPO. Umba was nominated by Patricia Holmes for his contribution in assisting the homeless to get on their feet and to wean them off drugs. Umba completed his Master’s degree in chemistry at UCT in 2011. He looked at the inequality around him and decided that he needed to do something about the situation. “I have a heart to help and I couldn’t accept seeing fellow people on the streets. People would see the homeless and not react and I believed that I had to do something. I decided to go to a shelter in Wynberg to spend time with the homeless and see what they’re doing,” said Umba. He created the Life Change organisation which creates awareness around substance abuse. Last but not least, third hero Anna Goodman was nominated for her work in caring for young children at her crèche, Little Diamonds Educare, in Wesbank. She provides the children with three meals a day, often without remuneration. Goodman left her day job in 2000 and started caring for children when people approached her to look after their kids. This eventually led to her starting her own crèche, she said. “I moved out of my house and into a wendy house and I continued to look after kids. We moved into a building because of the shooting in the area. At the moment I do everything on my own." @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus