The alleged attack during which four people were injured, including a woman who had serious burns to her face, is the second such incident this month. The previous incident was a train set alight near Retreat station last Tuesday. WATCH: Buttskop rail crash: 'What was the driver thinking?' DA councillor Nceba Hinana said Nzimande should inform South Africans about what is being done to make public transport safer for commuters, as the attacks reflect the Passenger Rail Agency of SA’s (Prasa) “inability to beef up security for its commuters and infrastructure”. “These alleged attacks are barbaric, and Metrorail must ensure all trains and coaches are fitted with CCTV cameras and security personnel. Prasa must account for how they are spending their budget, which they have so far failed to do. It’s shameful that commuters must risk their lives when boarding trains as crime goes unaddressed. “I commend the train crew for their speedy response to the emergency as they quickly decoupled burning coaches to prevent the fire from spreading,” said Hinana. The commuters on the burning train were evacuated at Ottery station, and the injured were taken to hospital, while the two damaged carriages were removed. City Fire and Rescue spokesperson Theo Layne confirmed the fire was of malicious origin. Western Cape SAPS spokesperson FC van Wyk said a case of arson was being investigated. “An incident was reported of a train burning between Southfield and Ottery stations in the Grassy Park area. The train was en route from Retreat towards Cape Town station and caught fire just before Ottery station,” Van Wyk said. READ: R47.9m for special rail policing unit for Cape Metrorail “The driver’s section was on fire and the fire started to spread towards other sections of the train. Two commuters were injured, one female sustained burn wounds to her face. Police and the fire brigade were immediately dispatched to the scene. “When the Fire and Rescue members extinguished the fire they found the body of a person burnt beyond recognition in the coach,” said Van Wyk. He said crime-scene experts and firefighters were on the scene and were combing the area for clues. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said the damaged carriages would be taken to the depot for assessment by Prasa officials in order to determine the extent of damage. Scott asked that anyone with information or footage of the event provide this to police. She said a reward of up to R25 000 would be paid for information leading to a successful conviction. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus