Weather SA released a seasonal climate watch which stated that the number of rainfall days were expected to be higher than normal for winter rainfall areas, but it was not expected to bring about extremely high amounts of rainwater. “There are indications for above-normal rainfall during early winter in May, June and July. Through to late winter in July, August and September, there is not sufficient confidence in the forecasting system and there is very high uncertainty regarding the rainfall intensity for the winter,” read the statement. READ MORE - #EveryDropCounts: Emergency pipeline repair work in Wynberg under way Cape Town Weather Office Operations forecaster Kate Turner agreed with the forecast, and said there was low accuracy rate with the rain forecast, which shows slightly above normal rainfall for the southwestern parts of the Cape, where the dams are situated. Turner said we needed to be even more conservative with water than before, as it didn’t look like things were improving. “Even if we have above normal rainfall for the entire winter, we still won’t be out of the critical drought, as it would take a few seasons for us to get out of this situation. If the dams do pick up, then it’s summer we have to prepare for,” Turner said. Agri SA chief executive Carl Opperman said the agricultural sector was also still suffering under drought conditions, and expected to have a poor harvest this year, and possibly next year as well. RELATED - #EveryDropCounts: Tourism partners in Cape to launch water campaign “The Western Cape agriculture sector is still very much in the grip of the water crisis. Wine and fruit producers have no water available for the after-crop irrigation of orchards and vineyards. This will have an effect on next year’s harvest,” he said. “The conditions for winter grain producers are far from ideal. Agriculture’s water supply has been curtailed by between 60% and 83%, and in the Lower Berg River region, producers’ water quotas have been depleted. Producers have started planting in very dry soil, and need rain critically,” Opperman said. He added that producers in the Cape Town Metropole and Malmesbury areas had little soil moisture after the recent rainfall, so follow-up rain was critically needed. “The livestock sector is also still in a desperate situation and rain is critically needed for grazing and pastures.” @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus