The researchers and crew members, who formed part of the 8th Marion Island Relief Voyage, docked on Monday after braving extreme weather on the island to conduct scientific research on the mammals, birds and soil. The research will be used to produce numerous national and international research publications in areas such as ornithology, geology, zoology, botany, meteorology and space weather. It will further the human scientific capacity in South Africa. ALSO READ: Teen, 13, dreams of being a harbour pilot Department of Environment Affairs (DEA) deputy director general Judy Beaumont welcomed the crew home and thanked them for giving up creature comforts in order to enhance SA’s research output and put us on the international map. “South Africa is very proud of your contribution to the scientific work conducted at Marion, which extends beyond 50 years. “All activities relate to a better understanding of top marine mammal predator ecology within the Southern Ocean region. “This integrates well with insight gained from monitoring the feeding habits of sea birds by DEA Ocean and Coastal Research for the past 25 years. These collectively enable us to determine the areas of the southern ocean where the mammals and birds are feeding,” said Beaumont. Beaumont said the team gathered research by collecting diet and blood samples from mammals and birds as well as soil and plant samples in different seasons. This research will enable the DEA to determine the balance in the marine ecosystem which we depend on for food security, climate impacts and economic fisheries. Professor Werner Nel from Fort Hare University, who helped lead the expedition, said the group faced many challenges, as some field assistants traversed on foot in rough topography and adverse weather. “The science went very well under the circumstances. We have power issues currently and there were food issues in the previous year when we arrived and some infrastructural issues on the base.   “We have certain projects running for 54 years, including the island mammal research project and marine type predator research, irrespective of the challenges.” Nel said Marion Island, north of the polar Atlantic conversion, was at the forefront of climate change. It therefore experienced the weather changes brought about by global warming first hand. “As polar trenches are shrinking, it affects Marion quite rapidly. Over the last 30 or 40 years there has been a massive reduction in rainfall and warming of temperatures, due to southerly shift of the cold front. It’s also why Cape Town is so dry, because Cape Town gets its rain from the cold fronts coming through and because the weather has shifted, it’s dry,” said Professor Nel. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus