He undertook to address the Metrorail challenges, especially the problems related to the Central line, and to capacitate the Western Cape with additional resources. He also said he would meet with the taxi industry leadership to talk about all issues, including the matter of how public transport is subsidised. READ MORE: Metrorail is on track and moving ahead It was refreshing to hear the minister’s total commitment to deepening the momentum for public transport transformation that started in April 1994. Since then, the country has seen huge investment in transport infrastructure, such as the building of new railway stations, refurbishment of rolling stock and upgrading of the signalling system. We have seen how new transport systems like the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) was rolled out in 13 cities and the introduction of new technologies to manage traffic. We acknowledge the development of a world-class national road network by Sanral, and Acsa’s building of modern airports - with air-bridges and other facilities which are more advanced than those of many developed countries. Government’s investment in infrastructure and modernisation of our transport system continued after the 2010 Fifa World Cup, with the acquisition of new commuter trains by Prasa (to replace the old fleet of Metrorail ) and Transnet’s Market Demand Strategy (ports, railway and pipeline). With investment in these latest two programmes, government would have invested R400billion in our transport system over a 10-year period. The transport infrastructure investment is unprecedented in the history of South Africa. However, there were some setbacks which hampered the transformation of our transport system, in particular public transport. Notwithstanding the scrapping of old taxis, the taxi recapitalisation programme was too slow. Prasa has also faced serious challenges in recent years. The minister understands that the majority of working-class people and the public demand an efficient, accessible, affordable, integrated and safe public transport system, with a single, integrated fare structure and ticket system for buses and taxi operators. It goes without saying that with investment, both regional and long distance rail will be made reliable as an affordable transport mode for the working class. * Leonard Ramatlakane, Member of Parliament. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers.  Cape Argus