The teams come from 53 schools within the peninsula. Spine Road High School, Rylands High School and Milnerton High School are a few of the teams returning, but this year welcomes many newcomers such as Paul Roos Gymnasium and Gansbaai Academia. ALSO READ: Entries close for #HighSchoolsQuiz “The pupils showed a lot of interest,” said Robyn Pienaar from Paul Roos Gymnasium, who is managing the school’s team. “There were more children entering than spaces available. I think they will enjoy being challenged and taking part in something new. They will get to see what they know and don’t know. “Today you want to instil a learning ethos in pupils and want them to learn so it can widen their world.” Gansbaai Academia’s Mona Matthews shared that sentiment, saying pupils loved competing and getting to expand their general knowledge. “It will allow them to make new friends. The kids like to compete and will be nervous, but we will try our best and I believe they will come out better learners at the end.” The annual quiz encourages high school scholars to test their knowledge of the news and current affairs that can be found within the pages of the Cape Argus. Topics include politics, sport, entertainment and general news. This year, the winning school will receive R35000 and the winning team will receive R3000 per team member. Up for grabs are also two bursaries offered by the Community Chest. READ MORE | WATCH: Maitland High School crowned #HighSchoolsQuiz champions “The annual Cape Argus Food Lover’s High School Quiz is a highlight on our events calendar,” said Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley. “I want to congratulate all the teams for having entered this competition, and urge their schools, parents and school governing bodies to give them all their support. “We thank Food Lover’s Market for helping make this event possible and are very pleased that the Community Chest has offered two bursaries as prizes. We look forward to a very exciting contest.” This will also be the first time that the top two teams of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz will go on to compete in the National High School Quiz. Independent Media’s Daily News, Pretoria News, The Star and Cape Argus newspaper titles are partnering with Varsity College to bring you The National High School Quiz.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus