The uniforms indicated the various eras and ranks in which each nurse served at Groote Schuur hospital, and the retired nurses wore their uniforms with pride as they returned to their workplace years later to celebrate International Nurses Day, which will officially take place this Saturday. ALSO READ: One night with Ronan Keating to benefit Red Cross The hospital invited 80 retired nurses who worked at the hospital 30 to 50 years ago to come back and celebrate their contribution to the health sector and in the lives of others, as part of its 80th birthday celebrations. “We called the nurses to say thank you for all they’ve done. Groote Schuur is the first hospital to have performed a heart transplant and we have had many firsts since then. It would not have been made possible without the nurses. “Most people are brought into this world by nurses and midwives, not doctors, that’s why we decided to bring them back and thank them. Nursing has changed a lot over time. Back then, they had to fight to be recognised as professionals, and they paved the way,” said the head of nursing staff at Groote Schuur, Aghmat Mohamed. Nurse Lena Schippers, who started nursing in 1966 and retired in 1997, spoke of the changes experienced at the hospital, which included different uniforms and a spike in crime. “When I started we had a white uniform that was long, with a belt, which we didn’t like, so we would pull it up with the belt. But there was an old matron in charge and she would pull it down again when she saw us. “Crime wasn’t bad in the 1980s; then you only had three to four shooting incidents a week. When we moved over to the new hospital, the numbers increased and we had 17 to 20 gunshot incidents a week. I’m sure nowadays it's much more,” said Schippers. READ - PICS and VIDEO: Stormers share the gift of a smile Another nurse, and an operations manager, Rachel Charles, who started nursing at the hospital in 1980, said she was excited to see retired senior nurses who mentored her when she started her nursing training. “I’ve been in nursing for 38 years and I was one of the lucky nurses, as the senior nurses then really taught us well. “I started in the old building in the ICU. The wards had two entrances and we knew which one was for us. “Back then, we mixed our own antibiotics and you mixed from 7pm till 10pm at night, and now in the new building the pharmacist mixes all our antibiotics. Today I still know people who had a bone marrow transplant 30 years ago and are still well today. It’s really the cherry on top,” said Charles. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus