This comes after a taxi driver was killed on Monday. Nazeem Daniels, 40, chairperson of the Delft Taxi Association, was killed at the Delft taxi rank at around 7am. The suspects then fled the scene. RELATED: Suspect, 31, held for Delft taxi shooting In the last week three taxi drivers have been killed in taxi violence in Delft. The police have arrested two people in connection with the shootings. Grant said: “The Department of Transport and Public Works, through the Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE), would immediately prepare a Section 91 (National Land Transport Act) notice, declaring my intention as the MEC of transport and public works in the province to institute extraordinary measures which may include the closure of ranks and/routes in Delft should the current violent conflict continue. “This decision is not taken lightly and is taken primarily with safety of commuters in mind, who are at serious risk of being in the crossfire of the ongoing violence. The City of Cape Town will immediately prepare the Transport Contingency Plan that will be implemented in the event of the closure of ranks and/or routes.” He said the department would also institute hearings into the conduct of associations operating in Delft in terms of Section 7A (20) of the Western Cape Road Transportation Act Amendment Law. These hearings could lead to the suspension or deregistration of certain associations and/or operators. The first of these hearings is scheduled to take place next week. Law enforcement would also continue to impound illegally operating taxis in the Delft area. “Since last week, we have impounded over 30 minibus taxis. The department, together with the City of Cape Town, is also looking into alternate space that could serve as an additional secure impound facility.” A taxi operator, who did not want to be named, said taxi violence had been escalating in Delft. “Last week another taxi-related killing took place at the Hanover Park taxi rank. A certain taxi organisation operating from Delft, wants more routes. The Delft route has become lucrative. And this is what led to the violence,” he said. Grant extended his condolences to Daniels’s family. “No family should have to suffer a loss in this manner. I strongly condemn his murder and the violent nature that this ongoing conflict continues to exhibit. It is unacceptable that any dispute should result in bloodshed and a loss of life.”  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus