Nkohla, who shot to infamy after dumping human faeces at the Western Cape Legislature and the Cape Town International Airport, pulled no punches in his letter onslaught. “You (Maimane) are nothing; you won’t do nothing to me with your madam (sic); you are nothing in the DA; you are not a leader. You are Chester Missing, it is not you talking, you are programmed; you are not original and there is nothing authentic about you,” he charged. ALSO READ: De Lille: DA tactics meant to protect JP Smith at all costs Nkohla said he penned the letter to inform Maimane he was aware of a plan the DA leader and a certain group within his party have against him and other Ses’Khona defectors. He wrote the letter in defence of De Lille whose future in the DA and position as mayor of the city were under threat. “Immediately after the 2016 elections you instructed the mayor of Cape Town to fire me because you didn’t want me in that office. "Your strategy was three months after the elections we will ask the then mayco member councillor Ernest Sonnenberg to resign so that my contract automatically comes to an end as it was aligned to the tenure of mayco members. "Later Sonnenberg resigned as mayco member and was appointed as area director in the City,” he said. Nkohla claimed he and Maimane met more than twice and the DA leader had asked him to help Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba or run a DA-aligned NGO. READ MORE: #DeLille heads to court for round 3 of her DA battle “I refused to be a consultant. I refused upfront to you because I said I have a responsibility to fulfil promises that we made to people of Cape Town with our leaders including the mayor when we were campaigning. I wish to put this on record to you; I will not keep quiet as long as you and your masters continue to abuse your own so-called DA constitution, the rights of individuals, your racist and selective prosecution of black leaders, particularly women,” he said. “I wish to ask you, fake Mini-Mandela, to bring it up with your racist boys that have baaskaap thinking I’m ready for you. "You faked former US president Barack Obama. You faked former president Tata Nelson Mandela - he’s turning in his grave by now,” he charged. Maimane’s spokesperson Portia Adams responded to the letter in two sentences. “Mr Nkohla is being deceitful. He has always had a loose grip on the truth.” @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus