The legislature’s standing committee on economic development and tourism previously asked for a legal opinion on the appointment of an independent investigator to probe the September 2017 incident. The committee resolved to request an opinion on whether the incident may be investigated by an independent investigator, as the incident spoke directly to tourism safety-compliance issues. READ MORE: NSRI confirms successful Robben Island ferry rescue Advocate Romeo Maasdorp, legal adviser in the legislature, said the committee could not delegate its oversight role. “The incident in question seemed to have ensued as a result of the failure to adhere to prescribed national safety regulations; it is trite, if one has regard that the Western Cape, on the basis of tourism being a concurrent functional area, has a direct, real and material interest in the incident,” he said in his legal papers. “Whereas it may not be competent for a provincial standing committee on the basis of the 'lack of maritime safety compliance', to inquire into the incident, the committee may, on the basis of the incident’s tourism relatedness, inquire as to whether or not there was an impact,” he said. Maasdorp said agencies like Wesgro and Cape Town Tourism could be used to investigate whether tourism was affected. “The provincial government is responsible for the promotion of trade and investment in the province. To this end, the Wesgro Act of 1996 provided for a provincial investment and trade promotion agency.” Maasdorp said Wesgro was accountable to the standing committee, and its appointment of an independent investigator may also have operational limitations. "Apart from budgetary implications, an investigator may not have inherent powers to access buildings, summon anyone, or compel anyone to give information or documents, whereas an independent investigator could obtain information in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act. But this may present a cumbersome process,” he pointed out. RELATED: Robben Island ferry 'out of action' since 2012 ANC MPL Siyazi Tyatyam said the process should be left to Wesgro or the provincial economic opportunities department. “We have government agencies to look at these matters and conduct studies in this regard. Let’s not get too involved. We should also look at bringing the maritime authorities to the committee again." ANC MPL Nomi Nkondlo said the issue was bigger than the Robben Island incident. “We should look at the transport sector and its impact on tourism. The transport sector needs to be accommodating tourism. On the matter of the independent investigator, the department can conduct this work,” she said. The committee, chaired by DA MPL Beverley Schafer, agreed to invite the SA Maritime Safety Authority again. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus