The solar-desalination plant is a first in the country and will be co-funded by the Western Cape government, through the drought relief fund and the French Treasury, through a fund dedicated to the implementation of green technology. The municipality, where several coastal villages are suffering from a structural water deficit - even outside drought periods - is located 250km east of Cape Town. RELATED: Alternative energy for Robben Island A site in the Witsand village, which is experiencing crucial water shortages, was designated for the plant, which will produce 100kl of fresh water daily powered by solar energy. The project will address the town’s water requirements and could possibly supply drinking water outside of sunlight hours via connection to the local electricity grid. The innovative model will provide sustainable and decentralised production of drinkable water and can be replicated cost- effectively for communities along the South African coastline as well as inland, and any location that has sufficient brackish water. The feature will be specifically used to address the peak holiday period during the festive season, with a daily production capacity increased to 300kl. The technology - OSMOSUN - has been developed by the French company, Mascara Renewable Water, and brought to South Africa by their local partner Turnkey Water Solutions (TWS). It is the world’s first reverse-osmosis desalination technology, coupled with photovoltatic solar energy that operates without batteries, and is designed to supply coastal or borehole- dependent communities with drinking water at a competitive price and without CO2 emissions. TWS said the plant will cost around R9million and the installation, on a small scale, would not generate many direct jobs because the infrastructure already exists. “Where a greenfield project takes place one will see job-creation numbers such as in civil works. But more importantly, it will create water security, and subsequently downstream jobs,” the company said. Mascara Renewable Water already has several key references worldwide for both seawater and brackish water solar-powered desalination. These include Abu Dhabi, Bora-Bora (French Pacific island) Rodrigues (Mauritius) and Mozambique. Economic opportunities MEC Alan Winde said it was encouraging to see these partnerships between the government and the private sector to help build resilience in the Hessequa region and ensure a stable water supply. “We are also happy that the output will be increased in the December holidays, so that local businesses can cater for visitors. It will also protect jobs in the crucial tourism sector. “The establishment of this plant will also help to develop and grow the green economy in the face of climate change,” said Winde.  joseph.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Argus