“Some 14 million South Africans go hungry every day and another 14 million are on the brink of hunger, and it’s not right,” said Food Lover’s Market representative Andrew Milson. Milson and the Food Lover’s team said the store is on a mission to eradicate hunger insecurity this World Hunger month. ALSO READ: Round robin stage of #HighSchoolsQuiz under way The store has joined forces with brands such as TruCape, Simpl. juice and Rungani to donate 79 cents of every juice, carrot, pear or apple pack sold by these retailers to Food Forward SA. They will also donate 1% of their turnover on World Hunger day, May 28, to the NPO to feed hungry mouths. The Food Forward organisation collect surplus food from retailers and farms which is stored at their warehouse and distributed to NPOs who feed the hungry. Through its network and food bank, Food Forward is able to provide a meal at a cost of 79 cents a meal by distributing food they obtain for free, allowing thousands of people to be fed daily. Food Lover’s Market hopes to get everyone on board by encouraging shoppers to buy the selected produce. “Kids go to school and study seven different subjects, all without having had a hot meal in the day. Also think about pregnant women who don’t get the nourishment they need. We need to take steps to eradicate hunger in SA - everyone can contribute to eradicate hunger,” said Milson. Fruit Forward chief executive Andy du Plessis said children aged 6 and younger are especially vulnerable and don’t receive the nutrition they need to learn and grow. “About 25% of children in SA are stunted because they didn’t get the proper nutrition. We partner with major wholesalers and retailers and say instead of dumping surplus food, give it to us for free. It’s food that’s well within date. “We want to make sure we address food insecurity in a dignified manner. We assist 600 NPOs nationally and they provide a meal four days a week to 250000,” said Du Plessis. Shoppers can support the project by purchasing any of the following in store this month: a 1.5kg bag of Tru-Cape Apples and a 1.5kg bag of Tru-Cape Pears, any 1.5L Simpl. Juice, a 3kg bag of Rugani carrots or a 750ml Rugani Veggie Juice. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus