However, the DA has admitted the party has suffered because of the bruising fight with De Lille. Natasha Mazzone, deputy chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, said the party was deeply concerned about the impact this has had on the residents of Cape Town. ALSO READ: DA FedEx full statement on #DeLille ousting “It is no secret that the DA has suffered immeasurable damage because of this issue due to the lack of information presented to our voters,” she said. De Lille is ap- proaching the courts on Friday to challenge the constitutionality of Section 3.5.1.2 of the DA’s constitution which states that “a member ceases to be a member of the party when he or she publicly declares his or her intention to resign and or publicly declares his or her resignation from the party”. This rule was used to oust De Lille as mayor and from the party yesterday. “Why was it so hard for them to run the disciplinary charges against me in an open process before a retired judge or senior advocate? If this is done, the whole process can be concluded in a matter of weeks. We will show on Friday that this so-called automatic cessation clause is not constitutional and it was unfairly applied to me,” De Lille said. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said the reputational damage suffered by the DA had been enormous. “This is going to be a long battle, and it will cost the DA,” he said. Political analyst at the University of the Western Cape Keith Gottschalk said De Lille had made a tactical mistake. “But the DA could be the ones who lose out. Voters can just decide to abstain from voting next year,” he said. De Lille said she still considered herself mayor until the court decided otherwise. “Once again, the DA’s desperation has led them to take another short cut to get rid of me before following their own due processes,” she said.“I am fighting for my right to natural justice and to clear my name. For months, various DA members have repeated untested allegations against me.” READ MORE: #DeLille's cull was cowardly Mazzone said the DA had yet to receive De Lille’s papers. “De Lille served on the federal executive of the party for many years and viewed the processes, procedures and application of the party’s constitution up close. It is therefore disingenuous that she finds issue with the application.” The mayoral committee has also been dissolved and deputy mayor Ian Nielson appointed interim mayor. The City manager has been instructed to inform the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC)of the vacancy left by De Lille’s departure as city councillor. Reverend Courtney Sampson, the Western Cape head of the IEC, said De Lille’s lawyers had served legal papers. “Our job is to ensure that a vacancy is filled, but there is a legal process now and we will respect that. We are one of the respondents in the case and Ms De Lille’s legal team is asking the court to interdict us to stop the filling of a vacancy,” he said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus