The event broke down barriers of race, culture, gender and religion. The exhibition which signalled the coming of Ramadaan was truly inclusive, which proves that the broader community with its common destiny as citizens of South Africa can engage culturally and religiously to transcend the barriers of race and gender. This beautiful event was prefaced by the Maqam (reading) of the Qur’an presented by Shaykh Mohammad Moerat with the best of local and international reciters participating. PICS: Crowds drawn to Ramadaan exhibition Among them was Qari Abdul Aziz Brown, Qari Abdurrahman Sadien, Shaykh Zuhier Sabah from Masjidul Aqsa in Jerusalem and Shaykh Ahmed Neanaa the state Qari of Egypt. The Jumu’ah performed by Shaykh Majdi Mafarjeh from Masjidul Aqsa in Jerusalem was another highlight of the exciting and multi-dimensional weekend, which opened its arms to all people of Cape Town. Inclusivity at this exhibition was already evident at the opening ceremony, which was attended by many interfaith and cultural leaders. These leaders recognise that respect and compassion towards each another is the only formula for peace, harmony and reconciliation. Notable among the religious and cultural leaders were Bishop Templeton of the Interfaith Forum, Chief Oki of the Khoisan community, Charmaine Maistry of the Hindu faith and Shaykh Riyaad Fataar the acting president of the Muslim Judicial Council. The visible change in the demographics of this event bears testimony that scores of Capetonians, irrespective of race, religion, creed, social background, culture or gender believe that we as citizens of this country have a common destiny and that we must find one another, respect each other and work together for peace, love and reconciliation. READ MORE: Ramadaan For All Exhibition aims to unite Cape Town Thousands of people attended the Ramadaan For All Exhibition and visited the Art Exhibition which had at its heart the display of the first Qur’an written by hand from memory by Tuan Guru 350 years ago. Experts from diverse backgrounds participated in this conference to engage, interact and to demonstrate that we can co-exist in peace, harmony and respect. The event had a dynamic market and food court with a beautiful layout - an ambience rarely experienced at these expos. The wide variety of vendors, which included clothing, dates and other merchandise was a shopper’s delight. The food on sale with its wide variety satisfied the most discerning palate. Overall, the Ramadaan For All Exhibition, by accommodating every facet of our broader community, was to many the best exhibition attended for many a year. Ramadaan For All struck a chord for inclusivity and was an enactment of ubuntu in motion. * Shreef Abass is the CEO of Spice Mecca and organiser of the Ramadaan for All Exhibition. Cape Argus