The community of Ebenhaeser, close to Vredendal, lost their fertile agricultural land in 1926. The legislature’s committee on economic opportunities, tourism and agriculture was yesterday briefed by the Ebenhaeser communal property association, which acts as the legal representative of the community, and the Ebenhaeser community development trust, which acts as financial custodian. RELATED: '20 000 farmworkers set to be evicted' Outside the meeting, community members and activists made it clear that poverty was rising and that very little agricultural activity was happening in the area. Mervin Doralingo, chairperson of the development trust, said there had been a shortage of funds from government. “We cannot continue with the little money we have. We have had to use that money to fund certain things and this has placed us under tremendous pressure.” Doralingo said they have not received any funding from the State. “We need R33 000 per hectare to adequately work the land in our community. We have not received any money from the State because we have not submitted any audited financial statements. But technically we have not received any money from the State,” he said. Ben Mars, chief restitution officer at the Western Cape Land Claims Office, said there had been governance challenges in the trust and community. “The farms are there and its productive, but there can be a greater enhancement if there are no governance issues,” he said. After lodging a claim in 1996, a settlement of R350 million was reached in 2014. The funds were earmarked for repurchasing and developing the land. Nine land parcels have been bought from private owners, seven of which were transferred to the community property association, and 260 people over the age of 60 have received R7 500 each. The next R10m for development would be given to the community, upon receiving the financial reports of the funds already received, and a business plan. Beverley Schäfer, DA MPL, said the committee was most disappointed by the lack of progress made since the last meeting in June last year. “We believe that the following fatal flaws will endanger the successful outcome of this claim, and have requested that among others an implementation support agency be established. This venture is going to fail because it is not done right. We do not want to fail the people of this community.” There are 1 840 beneficiaries, and the settlement implementation plan will continue until 2020. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus