Sims Sport is offering George an all-expenses-paid trip. “He received this new opportunity and this time we want to make sure everything goes smoothly,” said his mother, Bampende Maskini. The young boy made headlines in the past for previously trying to cross the border. ALSO READ: Home Affairs stumped by 'invalid' passport issued to Maitland soccer teen First, he had his dream crushed when his teacher raised funds for him to participate in a soccer tournament in Phuket, Thailand in November last year, only to find out that he didn’t qualify for a South African passport because both his parents were from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Then Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Fatima Chohan, stepped in and handed him what was thought to be a passport, but it turned out to be travel document which showed his nationality as South African, conflicting with the barcode on the travel document which identified him as from the DRC. This led to George missing the tour to Thailand. On hearing of George’s plight, Rostoem Simons of Simsport Eagles offered him a spot in the team for a Dubai trip. His exasperated mother said the team, with George, was ready to leave when the unthinkable happened, once again. Maskini said a week before the Dubai trip in April, she went to the Department of Home Affairs for confirmation that the passport that was given by the deputy minister was active, to avoid further disappointment. George’s umpteenth attempt at leaving the country was thwarted yet again. READ MORE: Passport hitch again clips aspiring teen soccer star's wings He could not travel with the team to Dubai as he was advised at the airport that the latest passport he received from the deputy minister was cancelled and declared lost and stolen. But this time, Maskini has turned to the courts for help, saying: “We couldn’t sit and watch the Department of Home Affairs get away with this again, so we decided to see lawyers to help us.” Maskini’s lawyers have confirmed that a letter of demand for damages has been sent to the Department of Home Affairs. They said George’s damages stem from the Department of Home Affairs’ gross negligence by its failure to issue Maskini with the correct and valid travel document for both his Thailand and Dubai tours. They said George suffered through this process, and will see a psychologist to assist him to deal with the disappointments. George has now been issued with yet another travel document and Maskini is awaiting confirmation that it is correct and valid, in preparation for his UK tour. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus