In many areas, the poorest of the poor live in suburbs without basic services and often co-exist alongside leafy suburbs and their affluent residents. As recent and ongoing protest action has shown, there are ways to react to this dichotomy that causes heartache and misery, but there are other ways to react to the disparity. RELATED - #16DaysForYouth: Tannie Magda’s Soup Kitchen feeds many souls One Cape Town radio station is doing just that - connecting those in need with those who can provide support and help, bringing joy and happiness in the process. HeartFM on Friday embarks on its third annual #16DaysForYouth campaign, which sees the station shut down operations at its Green Point studios and immerse itself in communities in need across the Western Cape. It connects its listeners and stakeholders with deserving community projects to build meaningful partnerships for positive change. HeartFM managing director Renee Redelinghuys said: “This initiative is important for us as a brand as it allows us to connect with our communities in a way that matters most. “As a radio station we need to allow our communities to tell their stories and to provide a platform that will enable support for these people. We will go out and put our best foot forward to assist in any way possible and through this journey we are creating awareness about the challenges the youth face today. “We will continue to dedicate 16 days of our time, our resources and our partners to this initiative, and we encourage businesses, corporates and organisations to adopt this initiative.” HeartFM will visit communities across the Western Cape, bringing along its broadcasting team, staff and what breakfast show host Aden Thomas calls the “cast of thousands” to get involved. Full details of the campaign, as well as an itinerary, list of beneficiaries and their needs, and contact details about how you can get involved will be published in a special Cape Argus wraparound tomorrow. Heart FM programming manager Denver Apollus said: “The journey of #16DaysForYouth paints a very real picture of these challenges. The way our audience responds to this and how involved they get is absolutely humbling. Key partners like Airborne Experience, Barons Cape Town, SPAR, Peninsula Beverages and MSP Developments and the Cape Argus have made our journey possible.” @LanceTheWitten  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus