The most recent attack has been attributed to caracals which have been spotted on the estate and are said to have killed up to 40 cats since 2015. Cat owner and resident Kim Schoeman found her cat Cabanna paralysed and partially alive on May 15 in what she believes is a caracal’s lair. READ MORE: Caracal pops unexpectedly into Durbanville home “A cat was attacked last Tuesday along with mine. It bites the cats in the back of the neck, paralysing it to keep its food fresh. So my cat lay there for two days watching this predator eating my neighbour’s cat “What if it happens to a baby (child)? ‘Caracal corner’ is meant to be a park. An autopsy was done on one of the cats which found it was taken by a predator, which has to be a caracal there is nothing else it could be,” said Schoeman. Her biggest concern was that a child’s swing was situated next door to the area identified as the caracal’s lair, which she said could result in a child being taken. The chief executive of Atlantic Beach Homeowners Association, Harry White, said caracals had been spotted by residents outside and on the estate, but the situation was difficult as they were protected and could not simply be caught and removed. “It’s not a new thing on the map; we have a nature conservationist working on it on the estate. You cannot catch or kill the caracal, you need the proper licensing. It’s very emotional and I understand it, but it’s just not that simple. “The wild cat can walk through the gates at any time. It’s not only on the estate but in the whole of Melkbosstrand. It’s in the hands of the conservation specialist who advises on what can and can’t be done,” said White. Dr Laurel Serieys of the Urban Caracal Project, which promotes caracal conservation, said it’s not unusual for them to prey on domestic animals. However, she said only 5% of the caracal’s diet is made up of domestic animals. “The number of cats eaten feels bigger to people who are losing their cats than the number of cats caracals actually eat. Whether it’s one or 10 cats, people will feel emotional. “Caracals eating humans should not be a concern at all, as its never been recorded before,” said Serieys. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus