The Cape Argus, together with Pick n Pay, want to acknowledge these heroes for the work they do and ensure that no good deed goes unheard. The first nominee Aziza Nolan was nominated by Fatima Toefy, who heard of Nolan’s work helping abused children. Nolan who started Peace Home in Sunningdale looks after 15 children and has dedicated her life to giving them a voice. RELATED: Retailer Pick n Pay says headline earnings up 7.7% “The children I help are mostly street kids and children who have been abused or trafficked. As a society we ignore kids who are neglected. I moved here after living in the UK for 25 years and assisted five children who were sexually abused and removed from their mom. “The police didn’t assist them and social workers couldn’t help. I thought I had to do something, so I sold everything I had and bought this place which I put in a trust for the children. I pay for everything out of my own pocket and pay for their counselling to give the kids a second chance,” said Nolan. She expressed her gratitude to the community for recognising her as a hero and thanked the community members who lend a hand in assisting her to support the children. The second winner selected as a community hero in Khayelitsha is Maureen Mabanga, who is a pensioner running a soup kitchen on her own. Mabanga uses the little pension she has to ensure that no one is left with an empty stomach. She said she’s breaking bread because someone will knock at her door and say they’re starving and it’s her passion to assist others. “I’m a pensioner running the whole of Khayelitsha even though I have no money. No one asked me to do it, but it’s been my passion for years. I do food parcels as well. I’m very happy that someone recognised what I’m doing. “People and companies should not waste the food they have when people are starving,” said Mabanga. Last but not least, Carmiella Carelse from Woodlands, Mitchells Plain, was nominated as a hero for starting her own outreach foundation two years ago. Carelse serves cooked meals to about 200 needy people every Monday and serves a three-course meal on Christmas Day, without any financial help. After Carelse feeds those in her community, she goes out to Lentegeur train station to feed the homeless in the area who know her by name. “My heart goes out to those who don’t have and I love what I do. My husband and son work and that’s how we survive.” @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus