The girls, aged 11 and 12, were playing with their 14-year-old brother on a small field along Welkom Street in Portlands on Monday when the pit bull jumped over its owner’s wall in nearby Durban Way. They say the dog spotted them and attacked. ALSO READ: Former cop mauled to death by his own pit bull The 11-year-old suffered huge bite marks to both her legs after the dog tried but failed to grab her by the neck. She was also bitten on the hands as she tried to fend off the dog. Marks Her sister suffered bite marks to her stomach. Both girls are still receiving treatment from Mitchells Plain District Hospital. The family asked not to be identified. The brother says they were catching lizards and that some boys had been throwing stones on the field when the dog jumped over the wall. He says three passersby saved them. “My sister was keeping her hands up and while the dog was busy with them, three men who were walking past took the dog off them. After that, I carried them both home,” he says. RELATED: 'Brave' pit bull takes bullet for her family The children’s 56-year-old grandmother, with the help of a neighbour, rushed them to hospital. “The 12-year-old has nightmares about the attack and is scared to play outside,” says the grandmother. Their 35-year-old mom says they reported the attack to police and want the dog removed. “The owners were angry that I opened up a case, but we understand this isn’t the first time the dog has attacked people,” the mom says. “The owner offered to pay for the hospital bills, but the dog was not removed yet. The dog has a litter also.” The Daily Voice visited the owner’s home on Wednesday, but no one was there. Raise The back wall of the house is about 1.8 metres high and the family says an attempt has been made to raise the wall with other materials, such as wood, after the incident. The owner did not respond to queries by last night. Police spokesperson, Noloyiso Rwexana, said they had no record of the matter. However, the mother says this is probably because the J88 form was still outstanding. SPCA spokesperson, Belinda Abraham, said they could only remove the dog once police gave the instruction.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  The Daily Voice