And, thanks to the Daily Voice readers, the Delft resident will be having a helluva birthday party with all the trimmings to celebrate his international status. In April, Guinness World Records certified 112-year-old Masazo Nonaka of Japan as the world’s oldest man. But according to Fredie’s identity document, he is 114 today, which makes him the oldest living human being. Thabo Mokgola, spokesperson for the Department of Home Affairs, says they have sent Fredie’s information off to the relevant departments for verification. Alert The Daily Voice has also contacted the officials at Guinness Book of World Records to alert them to the fact that Cape Town is home to the oldest person in the world. An automated reply said officials would respond within the next two weeks. Mayor Patricia de Lille and MEC for Social Development, Albert Fritz, were expected to show up at the bash at Fredie’s home. Last Friday Fredie’s wife told the Daily Voice because they are poor pensioners, they could not afford to bake a cake for the centenarian. And over the weekend, generous readers inundated the Daily Voice with offers of help, including retailers Shoprite, Pick n Pay and Cape Town’s favourite cake boss, Charly’s Bakery. People have also donated cool-drink, cup cakes and other treats. Fredie was born in Adelaide in the Eastern Cape in 1904. He moved to Cape Town and became a gardener and in later years he married his wife, Jeanette, who is 85. The couple have no children. Fredie was first introduced to Daily Voice readers in 2014, when he turned 110, by community worker Gadija Francis. These days Fredie still smokes and walks around unaided, and builds things. Jeanette says the party will come as a surprise to Fredie. “I told Fredie we must dress up in our best clothing and make the place right,” she says. “He still doesn't know what's been going on. I just want to say thank you everyone.” Milestone Following the Daily Voice story online, media houses as far as China showed interest in interviewing Fredie, including China Global Television News. Zubeida Alexander from Kensington is also baking Fredie a cake: “The fact that he has reached this milestone with his wife by his side is huge. Everybody deserves a birthday cake and who better than Fredie?” Daily Voice