“My passion is to dance, but I realised that dance is not enough. I needed to share this gift from God with all children. Thirty years ago I opened the studio to encourage others and keep them off the street. You dance until you are free from all the struggles and become liberated from all the past hurts and challenge,” said Koopman. He opened Ricardo’s Dance Studio in Sea Point to assist underprivileged children overcome their circumstances, the same way he did. The dance studio has since seen thousands of dancers from various backgrounds come through its doors, including Johannes Slabbert, an opera director. READ MORE - PICS: Pint-sized golfer Traigh Pathon, 8, to take swing at big title Despite being stricken by poverty and having to share a room with his five brothers and a sister, Koopman managed to get by through dreaming about dance. He eventually managed to complete his dance studies at UCT and went on to become an internationally-renowned dance teacher and adjudicator. “Through dance I could express myself freely and release the childhood memories that held me back. It was taboo to be a male dancer in the community back then and I was teased, but I loved doing it.” Two groups of his pupils have made it to the finals in the Cape Town Eisteddfod which will take place in two weeks on stage at the Sea Point Civic Centre. However, the studio is struggling with funds to assist the dancers who come from disadvantaged backgrounds and can’t often afford running costs. “I give classes for free to those who can’t afford it, so that they can come and dance. The kids need transport and sometimes I have to ask parents for money to get them here. It’s winter and some of the children don’t have clothes. “Two of my groups got into the finals of the Cape Town Eisteddfod and I was overwhelmed. They’re looking forward to it but I can’t continue without any support,” said Koopman. He said the dance studio provided a place of hope for children across the board who struggled with social problems, but it was not financially possible to assist more children. “I want to appeal to big and small business to adopt between two to 10 children and fund them for dance classes and exams. Many children want to dance, but their families do not always have means to support their children financially. “It will be a huge disadvantage to these children if we cannot be generous enough to support them,” said Koopman. To find out more about Ricardo’s Dance Studio, you can contact Ricardo at ricardo.s@lantic.net or www.ricardosdancestudio.co.za. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus