“We want change, and there are various groups that are more radical (than Bo-Kaap Rise) in their approach,” said the spokesperson for the group, Shakirah Dramat. “For us, we are focused on access to information and making sure people understand their rights.” Dramat said a media campaign had led to the formation of the group, and in the space of a few months it had grown dramatically, drawing the attention of well-known local celebrities, including comedian Yaseen Barnes. WATCH: Angry Bo-Kaap residents fight for historic area At present the “movement has over 23 members”. At the centre of their grievances was the gentrification of Bo-Kaap, over which the debate has escalated in the past few weeks. “We do support the burning of tyres because no one can tell someone how to vent their anger,” Dramat said. “We have been protesting for so long and no one has ever listened to us. If there is a group of people who feel that the only way to be heard is through burning tyres, they are right. “No one wanted to engage with the community, but as soon as those tyres came out, everyone started asking what was going on.” The Bo-Kaap community has been protesting since last week, voicing their objections to the gentrification of the area, and the increase in the cost of municipal tariffs. “I think this (protests) will keep up until people’s demands are met and when people are heard, (but) I can’t say how the community is going to feel,” Dramat said. The protests have caught the attention of the Claremont Main Road Mosque. “We fully support the commitment of this community to not only protect the heritage of the Bo-Kaap but also to ensure the protection and advancement of affordable housing in the city centre,” Imam Rashied Omar of the mosque said. RELATED: Bo-Kaap protesters step up demands over gentrification “We stand in solidarity against predatory developers and complicit city authorities who (aim) only to gentrify the Bo-Kaap and inner-city areas, crowding out black working-class and lower middle-class residents near the city centre.” Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith, said in response: “The City understands that there are communities with legitimate service delivery concerns and we continue to work very hard to deliver services within the limitations of our local government mandate and associated budget.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus