On Tuesday night Elaine Meyer’s restaurant the Upper Crust was petrol bombed and the windows smashed. “It’s devastating. The biggest thing for me was my son sitting here and was missed by the brick that was thrown through the window,” Meyer said. The brick missed her 36-year-old autistic son by centimetres. READ MORE: Vrygrond residents vow to occupy land “I think they are out to target businesses. It’s lawlessness -they emptied the bar and took the till and when they were finished they threw a petrol bomb,” Meyer said. She said she didn’t believe she was the target, but that they were targeting businesses. “I wasn’t scared, I had the motherly instinct to save my son. I’m busy processing all the emotions, I’m very edgy at the moment,” she said. Meyer is counting the cost of the damage done to her business which has existed for more than five years. “I have to get the place cleaned, I have to replace the ceiling, the stock, panelling and windows. I think this will cost about R300000,” she said. She would also be installing additional security. Violence in Vrygrond has entered its third day. Protesting residents looted a bottle store in the area. On Monday protesters targeted a private property setting three vehicles alight and petrol bombed a part of the New World Foundation building in Muizenberg. One man sustaining minor burns. “The residents are angry, that’s why they are doing this, because the government promised the land to them,” Vrygrond Community Forum member Isaac Goliat said. He said the situation intensified after they set the ward councillor’s car alight on Sunday. WATCH: Councillor taken hostage and car burnt in Vrygrond “The leadership in the area does not have any control any more, they want that land back,” he said. Goliat said the ward councillor had not engaged with them about the way forward. “We have not heard from our councillor, she has not come to address us yet, Everyone is very angry,” he said. At the centre of the violent protest is a piece of land known as Xakabantu, which residents vowed to occupy. It is believed to belong to a neighbouring nature reserve. Ownership is believed to be the subject of a legal dispute. The protest began last month, after residents complained of overcrowding at Vrygrond and a lack of access to land. Ward councillor Gerry Gordon said: “It is the criminal elements surrounding this protest. But for the time being I will continue to engage with the community because it’s my job.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus