It has been rumoured that the DA wants to do away with the City’s mini-mayors, Anda Ntsodo, Suzette Little, Siyabulela Mamkeli and Eddie Andrews. Plans are also in the pipeline to reduce De Lille’s powers and to establish a new human settlements and social development directorate. READ MORE: #PatriciaDeLille hailed over low-cost housing for CBD skyscraper The existing directorate, previously separate, is currently connected to other main departments. But JP Smith, the deputy caucus leader, said there was nothing sinister about the plan. He said they had started with the plan since the start of the year in order to increase accountability. “The changes in the systems of delegation are to create more accountability and transparency. The systems of delegation will move more decision-making to the subcouncils and portfolio committees, where residents can have insight into, and make input on, the decisions that affect them.” He added that the human settlements department had been a contentious issue. “It was split into three departments. There was a housing component in the water and informal settlements department, in the asset management and facilities department and in the transport and urban development directorate. “This way of working has not worked,” he said. RELATED: De Lille has no ‘right’ to be mayor Asked if the City’s Organisa­tional Development Transformation Plan (ODTP) championed by De Lille would be scrapped, Smith said: “The ODTP was always up for a review after one year. We all know this. The mini-mayors (area-based mayoral committee members) are still there, but there has been talk of whether that system is working.” He said the ODTP was not impossible to work with in practice. “But it will have to be looked at, especially the delegations, as we need to put more power in the hands of subcouncils. People can speak to their subcouncils and sit in their meetings, and by doing this we will be improving accountability,” he said. He added that oversight had become weaker under De Lille’s tenure. Meanwhile, De Lille will be back at the Western Cape High Court on Friday. De Lille said there were laws to be followed when changes are made to the delegation of a mayor. “There are processes to follow and these proposal have to be approved by council. “It can’t just be changed unilaterally,” she said. @JasonFelix jason.felix@inl.xo.za Cape Argus