On Monday, the Western Cape High Court heard details surrounding Jason and former employee Jolene Alterskye’s affair. Susan was found dead in a locked bathroom in a room she shared with Jason at the Spier Wine Estate on July 24, 2016. She was found with an electric cord coiled around her neck. The cord had been tied to a hook on the bathroom door. WATCH: Handyman reveals how he untied Jason Rohde's murdered wife It is the State's case that she was murdered by her husband, but the defence argues that it was suicide. When opening its case the defence called its first witness, Jason, to testify. In his evidence Jason gave a detailed breakdown of events leading to his wife's death; the affair and how the couple interacted at Jason's work function, the Lew Geffen Sotheby’s annual convention which they had attended that weekend. About five months prior to her death, Susan had found a Valentine’s Day card from Alterskye. Jason said after Susan confronted him about it, he confessed to the relationship, which had started in 2015, and broke up with Alterskye. “My conduct was deceitful, shameful. My conduct has ripped my family apart. If it wasn't for my disgusting behaviour Susan would still be alive today,” he said. Jason said that after the affair was discovered by Susan, her behaviour changed. He said she would keep his phone and respond to Alteskye’s texts as if Jason was the one texting. Three days after finding the card, Susan travelled to Cape Town to all the places Jason and Alterskye had gone, where she took photos and sent them to him. READ MORE: #Rohde brother-in-law tells court of frantic 'confession' Jason said she even forced her way in to attending the Sotheby’s convention, which was for staff members only. “She wanted to show Jolene that she was with me and to ensure that nothing happened between us,” he said. Jason said the couple spent most of the weekend at Spier bickering. He said hours before her death Susan caught him texting Alterskye. “The message would be something of a romantic nature to Jolene. Susan was beyond furious. Divorce for me was as clear as daylight,” he said. Jason said he had fallen out of love with Susan, but wanted to protect his children. He said he tried to leave the hotel room during the heated argument but Susan blocked the doorway. “I wanted to get out of the room. Get to Joburg, plan our life forward and get divorced, but we still had our family. Jason will continue with his testimony today. @Zoey_Dano zodidi.dano@inl Cape Argus