Cape Town - The City of Cape Town, the Western Cape government and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) have committed to spending R47.9 million over 12 months for the establishment and operation of a specialised enforcement unit to ensure the safety and security of Metrorail commuters and infrastructure. The City of Cape Town made the announcement on Thursday. The memorandum of agreement was signed by the three parties, following a commitment made during the rail summit held on February 9 this year. The unit should be fully operational within the next few months. "The unit will consist of at least a hundred members and will focus on commuter safety as well as vandalism and the theft of crucial Metrorail infrastructure and assets. The unit’s members will rely on technology and crime intelligence, and will support the South African Police Service to identify those who are involved in the illicit metals theft industry. The ultimate goal is to address the safety and security issues so that we can stabilise the urban rail service in the short term," said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Transport and Urban Development, Brett Herron. The City would be responsible for the appointment and training of the law enforcement officers. "PRASA is confident that rail commuters will benefit from an increased focus on safety," acting PRASA Group Executive Lindikaya Zide said. "I am pleased to see this initiative come to fruition after years of discussion. It was apparent at the summit in February that stakeholder collaboration and resource integration is a more effective way of tackling issues that impact on all modes of public transport," Metrorail Western Cape regional manager Richard Walker said. The Metrorail Western Cape region would designate 50 members of the current Protection Services Unit to be trained in peace officer, traffic warden, and tactical street survival skills. They will form part of this task team, the City said. "This initiative will support and assist in expediting our PRASA plans to professionalise and transform our own Protection Services Department to a more effective, better skilled and equipped transit-oriented unit to combat crime. The unit will have a two-pronged focus – primarily to deal with the vandalism, theft and illegal trade of non-ferrous metal and copper, and secondly to increase visible policing on trains and stations for improved commuter safety," Walker said. From a Western Cape Government point of view, the "socio-economic and environmental benefit of a well-functioning rail service cannot be overstated", according to Western Cape Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant. "A functioning, safe and secure rail network has the potential to connect in a way that is inclusive, efficient, and competitive, providing access to opportunities to the City’s population. Rail is likely to remain the biggest mode of transport of Cape Town’s workforce, even though passenger numbers are on the decline," Grant said. "I have always been excited by the potential of rail to be the foundation of commuter transport through a safe and affordable service for those without cars, and as a viable alternative mode for car users. Now is the time for inter-governmental cooperation in the spirit of the Constitution, and for the private sector and all other stakeholders to work with government to improve the situation. "Addressing security as an urgent priority will go a long way towards achieving this. The present and future commuters of Cape Town and this region deserve a functional and effective rail service that fulfils its potential," he said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus