At the same time, allegations against the DA surfaced after several senior members claimed supporters had been offered R50 each to protest against De Lille at the High Court today where she will launch her bid to have her expulsion rescinded. #DeLille: DA offered not to fill Cape Town mayoral position for 3 months A letter sent by the DA to De Lille’s lawyers offered to not appoint a new mayor for three months, but to appoint an acting mayor instead. De Lille said she did not even look at the e-mails from the DA. “I cannot go into the merits of the case. I don’t know what they want to achieve by leaking the letters. My lawyers have, on my behalf, rejected this offer. The (Electoral Commission of SA) is the only one that can fill this vacancy. Its up to the IEC only,” she said. De Lille insisted she was going the legal route. “Everything is set for today and we are prepared.” In its letter to De Lille’s lawyers, the DA’s lawyers - Minde Schapiro & Smith - argue that there is a need to avoid unnecessary and costly litigation. “The City will agree not to appoint a permanent mayor during that period, up to a maximum period of three months, as permanent by statute. An acting mayor will be appointed in the interim. “We agree among ourselves, and subject to the direction of the judge president, a date for the urgent determination of (a second part of the court application) before the end of May. WATCH: #DeLille: No one is above the DA, Maimane tells Cape DA stronghold “The effect will be that the applicant (De Lille) will not be a member of the DA, a councillor or the mayor. “However, the seat she occupied on the council will remain vacant until the second part of the case is determined,” it read. Shadow minister of public enterprises Natasha Mazzone said: “We have offered to agree, to prevent any further unnecessary legal delays, that the IEC does not fill the vacancy until such time as the review matter before the Western Cape High Court is finalised. “Under no circumstances did we offer Ms De Lille the mayoral position back. The City of Cape Town is being led by Ian Neilson, who is acting mayor pending the finalisation of this matter.” The DA on Tuesday announced that De Lille’s membership had been terminated and, as a result, she had been fired as mayor. It was her comments during a radio interview on Talk Radio 702 that led to her membership being relinquished. Mazzone said in the interview De Lille could be clearly heard stating she was leaving the party, and as a result her membership had be terminated as of April 26 - the day of the interview. De Lille’s court action seeks to also ask the court to declare unlawful the DA’s constitutional clause used to relinquish her membership. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus