Can you act, sing, dance and deliver a punchline on time? Marc Lottering is looking for a new Abigail for his hit show Aunty Merle: The Musical. Abigail is Merle’s daughter and one of the main characters. The role of Abigail was originally played by singer and actress Tarryn Lamb, who has to leave the show due to other work commitments. READ MORE - Aunty Merle: The musical that won Capetonians' hearts “We need someone who can sing the roof off the building and can act and dance,” says Marc. “She needs to look in her mid-twenties for this role and be able to speak English fluently.” Marc says Tarryn had other contractual obligations before he knew Aunty Merle, The Musical’s successful run would be extended at the Baxter Theatre. “Tarryn had to attend to her obligations, we didn’t plan on going this far with the show but here we are,” says the funny man. “Tarryn is in studio completing her new album and performing at various big music festivals.” Tarryn, 33, says she will miss being on the show. “Working on Aunty Merle, the Musical has been an incredible experience. The audiences have been beautiful and I loved every minute!” she says. “I don’t think we could have anticipated the demand for more and more shows, and although it’s been a blessing, I’ve got two new TV shows confirmed for this year and my first solo album coming out soon. Engaged “I’m saddened that I cannot form part of Aunty Merle moving forward, but at the same time I give thanks to God that I can follow my singing and TV dreams.” Aunty Merle: The Musical stars Marc as Merle, a noisy aunty from Belgravia Road in Athlone whose only daughter, Abigail, is getting engaged. But the young girl hides a deep, dark secret along with her dodgy ex, Denver, played by Loukmaan Adams. The show was nominated for three Fleur du Cap theatre awards for the categories Best Lead Male in a Musical, Best Female Lead and Best Sound Design, Original Music Composition or Original Score. Marc says auditions for a spot in the third season of the show is open to the public this Sunday, 3 June, at 11am at the Baxter Theatre in Rondebosch. You need to: * Be between the age of 23 and 33. * Prepare a song and bring your own dancing shoes. * Be available from mid-November 2018 to March 2019. The show will run at the Baxter over the festive season and will then tour to Joburg in the new year.  For more information about the audition, email Jessica at auntymerleabrahams@gmail.com.   venecia.valentine@inl.co.za  Daily Voice