Musician and record boss Mampintsha has refuted allegations that he was allegedly responsible for physically abusing his ex-lover Babes Wodumo. On Monday, Mampintsha - whose real name is Mandla Maphumulo - went onto Metro FM’s The Drive with Mo Flava and Masechaba Ndlovu in an attempt to give his version of events regarding his relationship with the self-proclaimed Gqom Queen, whose real name is Bongekile Simelane. He initially apologised to both his ex-fiancé’s family and his family for the disturbing news that he had allegedly abused Simelane.      “Our families are not OK and I know,” Maphumulo said. Wololo hitmaker Simelane on Friday revealed that she was no longer engaged to Maphumulo. He claims there are third parties involved in the collapse of his relationship with Simelane and the subsequent smearing of his name. Maphumulo added that he was not aware that he and Simelane had broken up. “I love uBabes very much and I will fight for her,” he said. In the interview with Simelane, Ndlovu revealed that she had sought refuge with one of her friends after she was allegedly beaten, resulting in her bleeding from the nose and suffering a broken leg. Mo Flava and Ndlovu asked the West Ink record executive if he had ever laid a finger on Babes. He said: “Ngiyakuphindela manje. Uma umuntu osemathandweni, akekho umuntu okeba nenkinga nothando. (I repeat, when someone is in love there is no relationship that does not have difficulty.) “But that I punched, broke her nose and broke her leg is not true.” He repeatedly denied allegations of physical abuse, while Simelane had neither confirmed nor denied the allegations. Over the weekend, Maphumulo released a statement saying he may have “overreacted in a couple of incidents” during their relationship. “As a public figure and a man I should be at the forefront of the campaigns against gender-based and domestic violence. “I am no saint, nor do I plead absolute innocence in the claims made in that interview. I may have overreacted in a couple of incidents during our relationship with her over certain things I will not be comfortable to discuss in the public domain,” Maphumulo said. “I fully understand that no human being owns or is entitled to another and that every human being is at all times at liberty to take personal decisions, do what pleases him or her and pursue a life of his or her choice regardless of any commitment he or she may have with another person or the implications and impact those may have on the other person,” he said. Maphumulo was unable to respond to questions of when he last spoke to Simelane. Twitter was abuzz after the interview, with users such as @dikeledi_iiam2 saying: “Mampintsha is like those individuals who don’t necessarily believe in the ending of things between them and their partners (as long as they’re still alive), “if I can’t have you nobody else will”, and that sends shivers down my spine in fear.” While Tshepo Tsotetsi said: “The way #Mampintsha is so insistent on being in a relationship with #BabesWodumo even after she publicly denied the relationship tells me there’s actually more to the story than the abuse saga.”  Zwane_2li2ls   The Star 