However taxi associations and authorities have urged commuters not to panic as they would be protected. Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association spokesperson Andile Seyamo said rumours circulating that there would be no taxis operating wasn’t true and there would be no disruption of taxi operation today. At least four drivers were murdered in Nyanga, four in Philippi East and one driver was gunned down in Wynberg in separate incidents over the weekend. RELATED: Suspect, 31, held for Delft taxi shooting Seyamo said the deceased drivers operated within the Nyanga, Gugulethu, Philippi and Crossroads area, and were Cata members. He said no taxi owners had been targeted. Seyamo said the motive behind their murders was unknown by the association and a working committee task team was investigating the incidents. “Our commuters will be safe. Members of the working committee will be deployed to monitor operations at the hotspot areas as well as taxi ranks. “We will ensure that passengers are transported safely to and from work. We are also working closely with police,” he said. Seyamo said the working committee was in the process of investigating the attacks. “We know nothing about what may have sparked the violence,” he said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said police were called to the scene of at least 11 attacks on taxi drivers over a 48-hour period, including six fatalities. Rwexana said in the Western Cape police have set up a detective-led task team to probe these incidents. WATCH: Man dies as Delft taxi war continues On Friday two suspects, aged 39 and 45, were arrested in Gugulethu and two unlicensed firearms seized following a shooting incident in Wynberg. “National Intervention Unit teams are deployed at identified hotspots as reaction forces to complement station deployments. Emergency meetings with role players in the transport sector, City of Cape Town, traffic services, SAPS and other law enforcement agencies are under way in an effort to determine the source of the violent incidents. Police have vowed to clamp down on all taxi related violence including the latest cases,” she said. Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant assured commuters of their safety. “City Law Enforcement will join traffic officers and police in various hotspot areas,” he said. Grant said from his understanding the Amaphela drivers were under attack due to their illegal transportation of commuters on lucrative routes. Grant said today an inquiry into the taxi violence in Langa and Delft would commence. He said nine taxi associations operating in Delft would be giving evidence on incidents on May 11 and 21 when two Delft taxi drivers were killed as well as the killing of the chairperson of the Delft Taxi Association, Nazeem Daniels. Meanwhile, South African National Taxi Council regional spokesperson, Vernon Billet, declined to comment. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus