The backyard dwellers had earlier invaded a piece of land next Prince George Drive where they marked out plots. The road was also blocked off for most of the day. Rashaad Allen from the Foundation for Positive Change, said most of the people who protested have been staying in backyards for the past 20 years. RELATED: Tensions mount after protests over housing erupt in Parkwood “Before the protest we handed the councillor for the area, William Akim, a memorandum about housing but nothing came of it,” Allen said. Akim could not be contacted on Sunday as his phone was off. Allen added that they want the City of Cape Town to build houses on the open piece of field, which is located between Walmer Road and Prince George Drive in Parkwood. “This piece of field has been standing open for a while and is earmarked for housing. There is also more open land in Plantation and Acacia roads. The last time houses were built in this area was in 1994. These are the reasons why people are protesting. People are tired of staying in backyards. All they do is make promises about building houses,” he said. Myrtle Gallant from Parkwood said: “I have been staying in a wendy house in someone else’s backyard for the past 20 years. In winter it rains into it and everything gets wet. Our children are also continuously sick.” READ MORE - WATCH: Parkwood still tense after violent protests over housing Mandy Williams also from Parkwood said: “My children are now aged seven and 16 and they can no longer stay with us in one bedroom. We would like to have a house of our own.” Mervin Fortune another resident, said: “We want houses. All they are giving backyarders are taps.” The provincial department of human settlements said it strongly condemned the violent protest which erupted in Parkwood. Human settlements MEC Bongin- kosi Madikizela, said: “While we respect the people’s right to protest, violence and destruction cannot be tolerated.” Madikizela said he received a memorandum of grievances from Parkwood councillor, William Akim on Saturday. Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, Madikizela’s spokesperson said: “This morning the minister engaged with the leadership of the area and it was agreed that a meeting to help find solutions for Parkwood be held on Tuesday. We urge the community to remain calm.” More land invasions happened in Hermanus last week. As protesters demanded land and housing. Bonginkosi said after the land protests in Zwelihle, Hermanus, the department of human settlements has begun a process of land identification which will benefit backyarders in the area. Makoba-Somdaka said to find a solution to the land protest, Minister Madikizela established a task team consisting of officials from the national and provincial department of human settlements, Overstrand municipality and community representatives from Zwelihle to work together and deal with residents’ concerns. Before Tuesday’s failed meeting, Minister Madikizela engaged the owners of Schulphoek who stated that they are amenable to enter into negotiations about selling the land back to the government for housing development, subject to a formal valuation process, price comparison and ensuing final negotiations.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus