According to the agreement between the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), the Western Cape government and the City, the City was to train the 71 security guards. Prasa expressed its disappointment with Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith on Thursday, denouncing his “cavalier insistence” to prematurely deploy some of the members of the Rail Enforcement Unit. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said this was contrary to the request from Prasa to desist until ready. “Smith insisted that some members be deployed before the agreed official launch. Smith took the Rail Enforcement Unit to parade at Cape town station on Thursday without the knowledge or agreement of the other members of the tripartite initiative.” Scott said Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker acknowledged that the launch date had been postponed, and that it had been agreed by all three original signatories that the launch would make a fitting end to the national Department of Transport’s annual October Transport Month activities. “We expressly agreed on the process to be followed prior to the launch, which included a formal induction by Prasa - this was still in progress when Smith forged ahead of his own volition,” said Scott. Walker said that Prasa would raise Smith’s disregard of process, protocol and the agreement at an appropriate forum. Smith said he was disappointed in the approach taken by Prasa. “There have been numerous delays in rolling out this rail safety unit, which was meant to start on September 1, in terms of the agreement. “It is now almost the end of October and the City staff are trained and ready to proceed, but we are being delayed because a launch date has been set at the end of October to accommodate the national minister. “I believe the staff should have been on the trains, ready to protect our commuters and prevent further vandalism of infrastructure,” said Smith He said they did not attempt to launch the unit this week. “I joined the staff on a ride-along to see how their training was getting on.” The Rail Enforcement Unit is a joint venture between the Western Cape government, the City and Metrorail. The initiative is aimed at curbing crime on trains and preventing attacks on rail infrastructure. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus