Last week, five DA councillors resigned during a full council meeting. They were council chief whip Shaun August, mayco members for area north Suzette Little and area central Siya Mamkeli, Atlantis councillor Greg Bernado and Mfuleni councillor Thulani van der Stemela. They resigned in support of De Lille, but DA leader Mmusi Maimane claimed that the five councillors were implicated in a forensic report that found corruption and maladministration in the City. Although Maimane did not mention the councillors by name, he did state that some adverse findings were made against some councillors. Nowhere in the report were any of the five councillors named. “For five Cape Town councillors the DA wasn’t a racist party last month, but now that a credible forensic investigation by a credible legal firm has allegedly implicated them in tender irregularities, the DA is suddenly a racist party. These five councillors have resigned, claiming racial victim-hood. "Can it be a coincidence that they have suddenly decided the DA is racist now that they stand accused of maladministration?,” Maimane said in his weekly newsletter Bokamoso. Bowman Gilfillan law firm was tasked with probing allegations of maladministration and corruption in the City’s administration. It found, among others, that De Lille persuaded and blocked former city manager Achmat Ebrahim from reporting corruption involving MyCiTi buses involving millions to council and therefore recommended that criminal charges be pursued against De Lille, councillor Brett Herron and other officials. August said: “We will be hitting hard against Mmusi because none of us had been found wanting in that report. We are nowhere near any corrupt activities nor have we involved ourselves in the maladministration claimed in the report. We left the party because it is a racist party." Van Rensburg and Kie Attorneys, for the councillors, gave Maimane an ultimatum until 6pm yesterday to retract “false and defamatory allegations”. August said: “It's time to go to court. That's where we will see him (Maimane).” Maimane added: “As for the five, I will see them in court. My lawyers will deal with those people.” Meanwhile, De Lille is also preparing her court papers. Her lawyers were preparing to file a court bid to set aside the Bowman Gilfillan report. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus