After 30 years, Mabuse and company are back for one night only at the Baxter, in a show that offers a fabulously varied repertoire, paying warm homage to the local music scene. Along with the accomplished Siphokazi Jonas - a poet, performer and writer - they will take to the stage for an evening of talent, sass and sheer entertainment value. Cedras, an Elsie’s River-born accordion, harmonium, keyboard and guitar player, has a discography that is eye-wateringly impressive. Among others, he has toured the world as part of the Gracelands show band and, before that, as a member of the Amandla cultural ensemble in exile. His first musical experiences were in the local church choir, singing and also playing accordion. He progressed to trumpet and was influenced by the local jazz scene as well as American jazz. He’s worked with artists such as Jonathan Butler, tenor saxophonist Winston Mankunku Ngozi, altoist Robbie Jansen, flautist/guitarist Russel Herman and bassist Basil Moses. From living in London to touring the world with Paul Simon, his musical palate and field of reference is vast. Friday’s concert will be a magical mix of the tried and tested, as well as the new (Jonas, Roshdien Jaz and Mmino). Says Cedras: “Sipho and I share a criss-cross frame of references, and we’re entirely connected each time we perform together. “The magic will happen in the room, on the night. That excites me, as it should the fans who’ll be coming out to share in Sipho’s return to Cape Town.” Presenting music that rose above the politics of yesteryear, Cedras and Mabuse’s talent and influence has actively fed a cultural curiosity. It will be a rare opportunity to see these two greats grace the stage together. “I’m as excited for the audience to see and hear some of the new talent, too,” says Mabuse. “We’ll share the stage, not have it divided.” Always motivating and inspiring young talent, “Hotstix” is a silent ambassador, giving future generations a voice. “For me, it is very important that these young musicians and wordsmiths take the baton and run with it,” says the legend. Mabuse says of the line-up: “We’ll be bringing a narrative many people don’t realise. Tony and I are living proof of that with the music we’ve made and continue to invest in. “The Baxter holds fond memories for me. We intend honouring the iconic venue with a stunning one-night show, playing all the hits and throwing in a few surprises, too.” Tickets cost R200 each and the show will run for 90 minutes, with no interval. Tickets can be bought at The Baxter ticket office or online at webtickets.co.za. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus