The provincial government announced on Friday that it will be disposing of the old Conradie Hospital site to Concor Construction (in terms of the Land Administration Act, 1998) for the development of an affordable mixed-use residential-led development close to the Cape Town CBD. This project has become commonly known as the Conradie “Better Living Model”. “The proposed development will provide 3602 residential units of which 1764 (49%) will be grant-funded units and the remainder will be for the open market. "This will cross-subsidise the affordable units and support the viability of the overall development,” the provincial government said. There will also be two new schools, each accommodating at least 800 learners, and commercial space for residents hoping to work or shop closer to home. A 21-day public participation period will now follow, where interested parties can submit any representations on the proposed disposal of the site. The provincial cabinet will then consider all public comments received and make a decision on whether to confirm the disposal. Discussions on the disposal of the land started in 2014. The provincial government pioneered a project, the Better Living Model. “The Conradie Better Living Model Game Changer aims to assist in addressing the apartheid spatial-planning legacy by creating well-located, affordable, integrated housing opportunities.” It said the project would catalyse the upgrading of surrounding road infrastructure and public transport in the area and is expected to provide just over 4300 jobs during the operational phase and just more than 9300 jobs during construction. The total construction cost of the proposed development is estimated at more than R3 billion. Jared Rossouw, co-director of Ndifuna Ukwazi, said Premier Helen Zille was insistent on getting market value for public land. “Market value is actually required by law if disposing to the private sector on the market, but is not necessary when advancing the right to housing and equitable access to land.” Rossouw said Zille was trying to find a compromise between the market and social value of land. “As long as Zille sticks to her model we'll never see province build social housing in the inner city and surrounds or any other well-located areas where they only have smaller parcels, and we'll continue to see province sell our best land,” he added. In April this year, the Department of Transport and Public Works called on property developers to submit proposals for the R6bn housing development on the Conradie Hospital site. The hospital was closed in 2002, and the site, which covers 22 hectares, has become progressively more derelict. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus