The City’s land audit was done by research organisation Open Up. The research shows how much the land is valued at and where it is. “We conducted the research mainly because I believe there needs to be a conversation surrounding this issue,” director for Open Up Adi Eyal said. The organisation shows that there is, for instance, land available in Hanover Park, Langa, Heideveld and Claremont. It also shows the value of the City-owned property, which ranges from R1880000 to R20million. Co-director at Ndifuna Ukwazi Jared Rossouw said: “The fact that the City owns thousands of parcels of land is undisputed. The problem is not availability but management. “The Property Management Department is failing to ensure sufficient land is in the housing pipeline so it can be zoned correctly and sold or leased at a nominal fee for social housing.” Rossouw said that more worryingly, the City tried to get market price for land that could be used for social housing. “It treats land primarily as a financial asset rather than the driver of spatial justice and the transformation of our society. It boggles the mind that the City has the same policy to dispose of office chairs and any old spares as it does for its best land. “So land that could be used for housing sits underutilised, or is leased to elite sports or parking lots for nominal fees. Other land is auctioned or tendered for cash based on poor valuations - a gift to the private sector,” Rossouw said. A report released by the Provincial Economic Review and Outlook 2018 shows the ever-growing housing crisis in Cape Town. The report states that by the end of July this year, a total of 578173 households in the province were in need of housing. The biggest share of the demand, at 61.5%, was within the City of Cape Town due to the concentration of the provincial population in the metropole. As of September 27, up to 345529 people were registered on their database who were in need of, and qualified for, a housing opportunity. Reclaim the City spokesperson Sammy Mohaleamalla said: “We are tired of spatial injustice; we can see that the City has vacant land but is dragging its feet. We know that the City is prioritising how it can make a profit from its land while we are sitting with this dire need for housing.” Mayoral committee member for Transport and urban development Brett Herron said: “The purpose of the City’s housing database is to ensure housing opportunities are made available in a fair, transparent, systematic and equitable manner, and in accordance with our Housing Allocation Policy, and no one jumps the queue.” Meanwhile, Human Settlements Minister Nomaindiya Mfeketo, on a visit to fire victims in Khayelitsha, urged government to urgently improve the living conditions of people. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus