Tongo attended the Western Cape College of Education in Kuils River in 1998. She worked night shifts at Spur, waking up at 6am to complete her studies. When the college informed her they were closing down, she was promised her credits would be recognised and advised to continue her third year of studies. Despite starting her third year studies in biology, she never received her second year results, which barred her from completing her diploma. “I was 25 and I worked night shift for three years. I only had one day off for three years, because I worked to pay for my studies. I failed science in my first year and repeated it in second year and they said I passed, but I never got my results. The college said I passed and said I should apply for third year biology. I registered and wrote biology and failed it. “When I looked for my results (for second year), there was no result. “The people I started with have been in teaching for 17 years and I’m here working as a domestic worker,” said a tearful Tongo. Tongo said the college administration told her to contact her science lecturer for her results, but the exercise was futile as the lecturer sent her back to the college to obtain her marks. After the college closed down, Tongo went to the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) to get her credits, but year after year, she was told one excuse after the other. Tongo tried to register at other colleges to complete her diploma, but she received rejection letters from the institutions she applied to and was instructed to go to DHET to be credited for her subjects. “In 2015 I started to go to the DHET and I didn’t get an answer. “I got nothing from both sides. I was a student at North Link college and one of the lecturers asked me why I was there because I had done the coursework. “I explained why I was there, but she told me no, you can’t be here, go find your results at the DHET. I went to higher education and got nothing. I went there in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and until today I got nothing,” said Tongo. Elizabeth Phago, of the Department of Higher Education’s historical records and certification section, said they were trying to find a record of the college and Tongo’s results. “We would like to extend our apology on the suffering experienced due to the closure of the college. “The department will do everything possible to resolve this matter,” said Phago. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus