A fire which spread in Silvertown, Khayelitsha at the weekend followed a nearby fire in Kosovo, Philippi and sparked concern for Grade 12 pupils left without books, study notes or a home. Sinethemba Senior Secondary School principal Nelson Poopedi said the school is waiting to tally the number of pupils affected to work out how to assist them. “Some of the children don’t tell you openly about fires; you can tell when you see them not wearing a uniform Poopedi said many pupils have a two-hour walk to school and most are robbed along the way. He said they would write accounting tomorrow and would need calculators, which would make them targets. “It’s what’s our children have to go through,” Poopedi said. He said he prayed for the pupils’ safety and transportation during exams because transport was the only way for many pupils to get to their exam venues and access better opportunities after school. Bulumko Senior Secondary pupils also reported Grade 12 pupils affected by the fire. Africa Can Foundation member Athenkosi Nzala made a special appeal to the public on social media to assist the undisclosed number of pupils who lost their materials. “Grade 12 students from Khayelitsha will be finding it hard to prepare and write well in the examinations. “We didn’t know who was affected, so we asked Grade 11 pupils to collect names and we have between 30 and 50 names of those who have been affected. Those affected need any available study materials, clothing, food and space to study.” Gift of the Givers Western Cape project manager Ali Sablay said the organisation donated R2million worth of clothing, shoes and stationary to assist pupils in Khayelitsha. Sablay said churches were coming on board to help with a study venue. Human Sciences Research Council Education researcher Vijay Reddy said pupils’ conditions at home would affect their achievements. He said they already faced many disadvantages before the fire. Reddy said society would weigh in and assist with essentials, but it would essentially be putting a plaster on the immediate crisis as opposed to dealing with the systemic issues needed to improve schooling for all. Education MEC spokesperson, Jessica Shelver said principals had reported the need for assistance in providing a safe space for Grade 12 pupils to study and the district will be providing additional resources to these schools. Shelver said the exams directorate had been informed that arrangements will be made for those who lost their ID documents in the fire. A number of schools have appealed to parents to assist with donations of stationery, clothing, bedding and non-perishable foods. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus