Van Niekerk was shot on Friday, on the N1 under the railway bridge in Maitland by three suspects, who fled on foot. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk confirmed that she died in hospital. “Investigations into this murder led detectives to Kensington where a 33-year-old suspect was arrested in possession of a .38 Special revolver and items stolen from the victim. “The other two suspects are still being sought,” said Van Wyk. On Monday, bikers parked their motorcycles in front of the magistrate’s court. While about 20 were allowed inside court, 16 others gathered outside for an update. After hours of delays in screening and getting the docket to court, Lucien Ackerman appeared on charges of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition, while a murder docket is still open for investigation. State prosecutor Leon Snyman told the court that the State was considering adding further charges to the investigation. He said the State was opposing Ackerman’s release on bail. Snyman requested that the court order the media not to publish any photos of Ackerman, as it would jeopardise an identity parade. He asked that the matter be postponed for a post-mortem report, as well as ballistic test results. Ackerman asked for legal aid. He also told the court he would be abandoning his bail application. Magistrate Gregory Jacobs postponed the matter to November 23 where Ackerman would be appearing on the audio visual link from Pollsmoor Prison. According to reports, Van Niekerk, who rode for Bikers With A Cause, was waiting for a fellow rider as they were on their way to escort a young couple to their matric ball in Fish Hoek. She leaves behind her six-year-old son. Van Niekerk’s friend and fellow biker, Jaco Wessels, said Van Niekerk arrived at the stop just three minutes earlier than arranged with her friend, Cheryl Sandmann. “Some d**s who has little respect for life did it (the murder) in two minutes. If we stop for a smoke or broken chain we have the same odds. “This man (Ackerman) is not scared to pay bail and if he can’t lets pay it for him, so that he has us to answer to and explain why he did it.” Wessels said the biker community was here to show solidarity. “I was not Zelda’s best friend. I am here because I am gatvol of living in a jail scared for my life. We can’t enjoy our freedom.” Another friend, Bianca Murie, was still emotional. She described Van Niekerk as the “hardest softy”. Murie said she had lost a good friend. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus