Stuurman is one of 103 small-scale fishers, from Port Nolloth in the Northern Cape, who was certified as a co-operative by the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Daff) in a new dawn for the industry. “This new business venture is like the birth of a child. There is this indescribable feeling after waiting. It’s like being pregnant and then you finally give birth to a child. “So it is with fishing. Fishing is an inherited trade that has been passed on from my grandfather to my father and then to me. It’s the only thing I know and to have my own company is like a dream come true,” he said. Daff Minister Senzo Zokwana said this was the first leg in ushering the small-scale fisheries sector in the country. “Today is the first milestone by the department in allocating rights to all approved small-scale fisheries co-operatives in all our four coastal provinces,” he said. Zokwana said the main objective of these co-operatives as per the small-scale fisheries policy was to create sustainable, equitable small-scale fishing communities, secure the well-being and livelihood of small-scale fishing communities and uplift fishing communities by providing appropriate support mechanisms, education and training, infrastructure and participatory management practices “It is a worry for government that while other sectors of the economy have progressed over time in terms of addressing racialised dominance, the fisheries sector remains white dominated, monopolised by big corporations and reluctant to extend a hand to those who were denied rights by colonialism and apartheid,” said Zokwana. Stuurman, who was elated about his new-found business, said he was looking forward to carrying out his lobster fishing business with a greater total catch allocation. “When I started in the business we only had a permit to catch four lobsters a day and you would sell those four lobsters in a street with 10 others like you. That four grew to 12 and now 135,” he said. Stuurman has already received business training from Daff. The department will be holding progressive workshops to nurture the SSF. SA Small-Scale Fisheries Association spokesperson Pedro Garcia said his organisation was never consulted about this national roll-out. “We are not sure if the department can provide a basket of species that can make economic sense for this, given the scarcity of resources. We know that the biggest allocation is given to the commercial sector and we know that their contracts only expire in 2020,” said Garcia. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus