Joy van der Heever, who was shot after assisting a 10-year-old schoolboy, who was kept captive by a thief on the run, said there was no accountability by the provincial Department of education (WCED) and the department of labour who awarded her a meagre R26 100, and have yet to pay it out. The incident took place in 2005 at Montevideo Primary School in Montana near Gugulethu. “I sent a pupil to take my bag to class and he took a while to return, so I sent some of the Grade 7 pupils to get my keys. They told me that the pupil wanted me to come to the classroom. When I opened the door he looked at me with a pale face. “I stepped inside and a guy stood at the cupboard and just shot at me without saying anything. I screamed and left when he shot me, and the boy was still inside it haunted me. It was a whole hostage drama,” said Van der Heever. She said the bullet struck the nerves in her arm, which stunted the mobility in her left hand and to this day completing mundane tasks is impossible. This, she said, made the amount awarded to her all the more ridiculous. Van der Heever battled for years with the WCED and the department of labour to be compensated and after being diagnosed with breast cancer in 2014, the emotional turmoil of being sent back and forth and having her documents lost became too much to bear. “We tried all avenues with the WCED; they lose your documents and send you from one building to the next.” According to WCED spokesperson, Millicent Merton, the reason for the delay in compensation is due to Van der Heever originally not wanting to accept the offer and seeking legal advice. Merton said Van der Heever accepted the award in 2018 and the Government Pensions Administration Agency was busy processing the payment. However, an email thread showed the payout amount was accepted by Van der Heever in 2015. “I (knew) they would play on that. It was in the same year of 2015 that I told them we were accepting the offer, not in 2018. According to them the injury was 8% (mobility lost). Look at my hand, my doctor said I lost more than 80% of the use of my left hand,” said Van der Heever. The Department of Labour did not comment before going to print. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus