The ANCWL called for the public to lobby Parliament to adopt laws allowing chemical castration or any form of castration of convicted rapists. “There will be those who will argue that castration is a retributive form of justice and a violation of human rights. Their views will be respected but our view is that rape violates the rights of the victims and the rights of perpetrators should not supersede the rights of victims,” said ANCWL secretary-general Meokgo Matuba. Castration of convicted rapists might be the answer to the high rate of rape cases in the country, it added. “ANCWL is saddened that despite all the enacted laws and awareness campaigns by various formations/individuals, South Africa is grappling with a staggering number of rape cases against women and children,” said Matuba. National crime statistics showed rape increased from 39 828 in 2016/2017 to 40 035 cases in 2017/2018. “Rapists must be stopped in continuing with their barbaric cruel acts of using women and children as tools to satisfy their barbaric uncontrollable sexual desires. We call on South Africans to unite, discuss this matter and lobby parliament to consider adopting a bill to legislate castration of convicted rapists,” she said. SAHRC deputy chairperson Priscilla Jana said the commission was deeply concerned by sexual violence but human rights as set out in the Constitution and Bill of Rights, applied to all, including prisoners and convicts. “Rights such as the right to dignity at section 10, freedom and security of the person - particularly the right not to be tortured or subjected to cruel and degrading treatment, the right not to be punished in cruel and inhumane way, the ability to make decisions concerning reproduction as well as control over their bodies, in section 12(1)(d) and (e) as well as section 12(2)(a) and (b) may in effect make chemical castration an infringement on these human and constitutionally guaranteed rights,” said Jana. The commission called on law enforcement agencies, including police and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to ensure that effective investigations and prosecutions are conducted on an urgent basis to ensure that perpetrators are brought to book and in turn serve and that appropriate sentences are handed down. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus