Daff Minister Senzo Zokwana’s spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana said: “As the ministry, we have noted the statement by a DA MPL who has been obsessed about Daff issues, especially fisheries developments relying on the so-called sources as a basis for her outlandish public claims.” Two weeks ago, Schäfer called a press conference, where she leaked the false charge sheet, which linked Daff deputy director-general Siphokazi Ndudane to charges of theft, confiscated abalone worth more than R20 million, and 155 counts of fraud, extortion, forgery and defeating the ends of justice. According to the charge sheet, Ndudane’s involvement in incidents of abalone theft took place on September 25 last year, January 8 and May 15. At the time of the leak, Nkwanyana admitted that Ndudane was suspended for 60 days in July. Following Schäfer’s correction statement, issued on Tuesday, Nkwanyana said: “As the ministry we were extremely shocked by this juvenile play to the gallery on what was unknown to us, the custodians of the process against Miss Ndudane. “This MPL convened a press conference on such unfounded claims, thereby compromising our own process without solicitation. We demand a similar press conference to be convened to withdraw and apologise.” Nkwanyana said Daff is a national competency, with no provincial concurrency. “We have been noting, with grave concern, some statements and media commentary from that province on fisheries matters for which they have no locus standi (capacity) for their preoccupation, he said. Schäfer said it appeared the information at her disposal was incorrect and allegations made by her were false. “I apologise, therefore, and for the inconvenience caused to the parties involved. While we note again that her disciplinary hearing has not been concluded or that she has not been brought before a court of law yet, we must ask, why Daff has yet to take any action against alleged criminal behaviour by Ms Ndudane,” Schafer asked. Schäfer also announced that the office of the public protector confirmed that the protector will be investigating a litany of allegations of corruption, collusion, theft, forgery, and defeating the ends of justice within the senior management in Daff under the leadership of Zokwana. The confirmation follows a letter of request by Schäfer. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus