Chairperson of the Helderberg Residents Association Stephen Leppan said: “According to my observation they are still studying the land, but the city has not been forthcoming with information on what they plan on using the land for.” Leppan said the area was struggling with a massive infrastructure problem in that there was a shortage of houses and schools. According to documents in the possession of the Cape Argus, the City bought the land from Paardenvlei Properties on June 3, 2015. The documents also state that the city was informed that parts of the land’s ground water may be contaminated. “The seller (Paardenvlei Properties) has made certain disclosures regarding the extent and nature of the contamination of the immovable property. The purchaser (the City) acknowledged that it had undertaken an investigation of the nature of the contamination,” the document states. “We understand they have to rehabilitate the land, but we have a massive shortage of schools in our area and a huge housing crisis. They have to inform the community about their plans,” Leppan said. He said they had requested meetings with the City to ask about the land would be used for, but they had not been given answers. The chairperson of the Somerset West environmental association, Gerome Vermierning, said: “There is no rehabilitation needed. Since the City has bought that property nothing has happened. We have a problem with a shortage of houses and schools and that land could lift the burden.” Mayco member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said: “To develop the land, the City has obtained environmental authorisations that will enable infrastructure development on the site to improve access and related stormwater management. It should be noted that the 101hectare portion of land known as Precinct 2 is already the subject of beneficiation, and this portion of land is being rezoned for development purposes.” He said the purchase of this land formed part of the City’s long-term strategic planning to meet the current and future needs of the area’s growing population. “The intention is to eventually establish new suburbs where residents have access to a wide range of housing opportunities and diversified economic opportunities, but due to the large size of the property and the public investment required for the provision of bulk infrastructure, the development will be done in phases over many years. Our City professionals estimate that the development of Paardenvlei in its entirety would have to take place over a period of about 30 years.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus