Moegamat Hartley, chairperson of the Cape Malay Cultural and Heritage Society, said visitors often frequented Sheikh Yusuf’s Kramat, which is a tourist attraction. They also looked forward to the annual four-day Easter festival, which receives thousands of visitors each year. Hartley said the religious festival, started more than a century ago, sees members camp over for the weekend event and although the festival was cancelled this year because of water restrictions, it may be put on hold again due to possible health risks. “With toxins nearby I don’t know if it’s going to happen. I don’t know what the Kramat is going to do about this. It’s a four-day festival and it is huge. Thousands of people are pitching up for it,” said Hartley. Bettina Genthe, senior researcher at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), who tested the water nearby, confirmed that E coli and algae cyanotoxin (microcystin), a toxin with serious health implications, was found to be over 1000ug/L in the river, where the guideline is less than 10ug/L. Sheikh Shamiel Basadien, a senior member of the Majlisush Shura Al Islami, said the toxic river needed to be addressed before the festival to avoid putting people’s lives in danger. Basadien said the Kramat was addressing the issue with the City. “It’s an ongoing issue which started when they started the water treatment plant on Baden Powell Road. They were suppose to make sure that what comes down the river is not toxic and abide by the regulations. This is why we have been talking to the City and political parties to try to get it sorted out, because the City needs to look at it,” said Basadien. Permit approval for the festival this year will depend on the City’s testing of the river water, he said. Energy councillor Xanthea Limberg, the Mayco member for informal settlements, water and waste services, said the City and relevant stakeholders hosted a meeting on Friday to determine what cautionary measures should be taken at the river. Limberg said more testing was being done, but as yet the City could not confirm that there were toxins in the vicinity which pose a health risk to the community. “Only once final testing has been done can we say whether toxins are present. Additional testing is being done and the results should be available soon. “With regards to discharge of any effluent from the plant, we make sure we follow due process and comply with environmental regulations. “The feedback on the meeting is not available as yet,” said Limberg. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus