Focusing on professional development opportunities was highlighted too. While the majority of junior respondents were satisfied with the allocation process, they also felt let down by authorities. Over the 15-year period, the proportion of community service doctors who were black and received a study bursary, and allocated to rural areas and district hospitals, increased. The great majority believed that they had made a difference and developed professionally over the course of the year, but only about half felt adequately supported clinically and administratively. The attitude towards community service of the majority of respondents shifted significantly from neutral to positive over the course of the 15 years. In terms of future plans, 50% hoped to specialise, a decreasing minority to go overseas or into private practice, and a constant 15% to work in rural or under-served areas. “We cannot deny the fact that we are dealing with a challenge when it comes to the support of junior doctors. “The interesting part of this was that their attitude, in terms of that number of people who want to work in the rural areas, is a huge failing and something must be done,” SA Medical Association vice-chairperson, Dr Mark Sonderup said. Dr Sonderup said there was potential for a solution. “What we need to develop is a solid health system in our country and that can only be achieved if our health professionals are looked after,” Sonderup said Many health professionals have raised questions regarding the department’s strict placement policies, which they claim forces them to work in rural areas. They said being married or pregnant carried no weight in being placed. Department of Health spokesperson Popo Maja said: “It is a legal requirement for any health undergraduate to be registered with their statutory council before engaging in supervised patient care. We have learnt that students do not maintain their registration information up to date. “All eligible students receive an email with a link to register and complete their allocation preferences.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus