Ehrenreich appears on three lists from different factions within the party. The ANC is in the process of hosting branch general meetings where members are to nominate names for representatives in Parliament and the legislature. Asked for comment, Ehrenreich said he was not aware of any processes. “I don’t know anything of lists or factional lists. Cosatu will make the final decision on where I get deployed. “It is not about what I want. I would also only consider such a position when the salaries of MPs are halved. “We are not there to enrich ourselves; we are there to serve the people and to increase the level of service to our people. “It is not a gravy train. We should not be getting these high salaries. Our people should be getting a high-level service. I will only serve in Parliament under those conditions,” he said. Other names on the lists include Cameron Dugmore, who has been nominated for the provincial legislature. Former DA member Grant Pascoe has also been nominated on the list for a provincial post. ANC MPL Richard Dyantyi’s name appears on the list of deployees for Parliament. Pascoe said he knew of the lists. “But the branches need to decide who will go on to the lists. “Once that has been finalised, we will then go to a provincial list conference where a final determination will be made. “What also needs to be known is that slates change their lists all the time. So tomorrow someone wakes up and takes me off their list. “The branches will have the final say, and that is what we are all waiting for,” he said. Recently, the ANC Western Cape elective conference to elect permanent leaders was officially cancelled. The move came amid efforts to stop internal divisions within the party before the general election next year. For premier, the top three names mooted by the regions were ANC MPLs Dugmore and Dyantyi, and Deputy Minister of Police Bongani Mkongi. According to ANC processes, branches should nominate their 40 priority names for the national list, and 20 priority names for the province to national and provincial legislature lists. This aims to cut down the total number of nominees who have to be screened. Branch nomination lists must adhere to the criteria that require 50% women, 20% under 40, representativity and at least 40% to 50% or more sitting MPs/MPLs. Expertise and specialist skills must also be factored in when considering nominations to achieve the target of 33% who have specific skills or experience. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus