The initiative, which encourages volunteers in their communities to take back their open spaces, has been running for the past 10 years and its success has encouraged the City to expand the project by creating eight new green spaces. The City started the Community Gardens Project a decade ago, with the aim of creating quality public open spaces, improving the use of these spaces, and promoting horticulture, landscaping and gardening as a recreational hobby, said mayco member of social services & safety and security, JP Smith. He said eight new community gardens will be established in Carrick Park in Kuils River, Eighth Avenue and Parkway Close in Rondebosch, Veronica Park in Strand, Norman Park in Wetton, South Close Park in Grassy Park, Upper Liesbeeck River Garden in Bishops Court, Erica community garden in Ottery and the Sonkring community garden in Brackenfell. The City helps to facilitate the development of the gardens by ensuring vegetation planted is suitable for use, meets the departmental objectives and is sustainable. Training is then provided to volunteers where needed. Recreation and Parks assists with the design and preparation of the site and provides basic tools and plants required to support the garden set-up. The gardens then have an opportunity to make a profit from their labour with the sale of seeds, cut flowers and seedlings. “Skills development is a big part of the programme and as a result the City has embarked on various training interventions aimed at equipping the volunteers. “The Community Gardens Project gives communities the opportunity to take back public spaces for the purpose of fun and beauty,” said Smith. The project encourages as many members of the community to participate as possible, and no garden is allowed to be fenced off. Community gardens from around the City will be honoured later this year at an awards ceremony to shine the spotlight on the volunteers who tend to the gardens. @TheCapeArgus  @argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus