Two hours later, after Sipho "Hotstix" Mabuse left, I sat down in my chair, closed my eyes for a moment and whispered a short prayer. It was a prayer of thanks that South Africa was blessed to still have stalwarts like him who inspire the nation with their music. Mabuse’s music speaks for itself, but many of his works soothed dented souls and gave us courage and inspiration during a very dark and painful period in our country's history. It was a time of ruthless oppression and naked brutality meted out to people whose only sin was the colour of their skin. Apartheid killed many, but at the same time created many more who ensured this evil system would eventually crumble. Those created included artists like Mabuse. But this icon who continues to be a beacon, did more than that. He had his music ensure that the story of our past will be remembered. I say this with all humility.       I am truly privileged to have this musical giant's permission to publish the lyrics of one of his songs which helped carry us:   CHANTING OF THE MARCHING  I remember the day. When I heard the sound of the marching feet from a distance. Rising all the way. From the sound of the stomping feet to the sound of resistance. Then there was fire and insurrection. Rocks and stones, and action. Bullets and pellets from every direction. Sirens and silence, unnatural oppression.  People chanting, people rising. You know, someday when it's part of our history. Our children will learn from the past. Someday when they tell our story. Children will learn from our past. Teach our children.  Human rights sacrificed, security fortified, authority satisfied. In a brutal state of anger. Someone is dead, with a hole in his head. A mother is crying, another is trying To explain why a nation is dying.  Someday when it's part of our history. Our children will learn from the past. Someday when they tell our story. Children will learn from our past Teach our children.   Sipho is performing at the Baxter Theatre tonight after an absence of 30 years. Tonight's show is regarded as his welcome home gig. Don't miss it. Peace. * Aziz Hartley, Cape Argus editor. ** To comment on this story, write to arglet@inl.co.za. Responses must include full names, addresses, and contact details (not for publication). @TheCapeArgus Cape Argus