City councillor and chairperson of the United Commuters Voice, Luyanda Mbele, was shot and killed outside his home in Kraaifontein. He was a councillor in ward 101 that included Bloekombos and Wallacedene. Mbele, 44, served as an ANC councillor since December 2015. He was re-elected to the position in the 2016 municipal elections. ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said Mbele was at the forefront of transport activism in Kraaifontein. “He always intervened in matters that related to the taxi industry. He met with taxi bosses and where he could help, he did. One of his main works were when he intervened in matters between the taxi industry and the City. He always tried facilitating meetings with the City. On the rail side, he was also vocal on the issues that affected rail commuters,” Jacobs said. Without speculating on the motive for his murder, Jacobs said a connection could be made with his role in the transport sector. “I know he always relayed the issues on the trains to transport minister Blade Nzimande. There were also various other issues in the area which he had great involvement in,” Jacobs said. This year, ANC councillor Elese Depouche was shot and killed outside his home in Philippi. Metrorail condemned the “senseless shooting” of Mbele. His cousin Mzwandile Mathenjwa died in the same shooting. Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker expressed his condolences to Mbele’s family, friends and colleagues on behalf of the Passenger Rail Agency of SA Western Cape executive management and employees. “We acknowledge and appreciated Luyanda as a passionate and dedicated advocate for commuters’ rights, who worked tirelessly to improve commuting conditions on trains and stations in the province,” Walker said. Public relations officer of United Commuters Voice, Joao Jardim, said Mbele was always concerned about the safety of commuters. “Luyanda was a dedicated man, who would sacrifice his life for commuters.” Mayor Patricia de Lille expressed her “heartfelt condolences” to his family. She said police had confirmed they were investigating the matter and the City would offer its full support. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the case was under investigation. “Kraaifontein detectives are working around the clock in an effort to find the perpetrators.” Luyanda leaves his mother, Joyce Mbele, daughters Amela, 25, Ncebakazi, 16, Mna, 5, Minathi, 3, sons Liyakhaya,11, Zeqhawe, 8, and two grandchildren, Iviwe, 9 and Asonge, 1. @TheCapeArgus  jason.felix@inl.co.za; sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus