On Tuesday, Archbishop Thabo Makgoba of Cape Town announced that those wishing to be ordained to serve as a clergyperson will have to provide a police clearance certificate. “Clergy and lay people from every diocese in southern Africa had their first opportunity to discuss the reports of clergy abusing children which received widespread publicity earlier this year. “We were made acutely aware of the pain of those who have been hurt by the church. Although the number of cases reported so far is limited, we resolved to take up the issue with the utmost seriousness,” said Makgoba. In addition to the thorough vetting policy, the church has also set up an email address, safechurches@anglicanchurchsa.org.za, to make it easier to report allegations of abuse. Abuse complaints were made directly to the diocese. “The council also reported that complaints, especially historical complaints, are not being handled quickly enough. It recommended that we set up a central register of complaints, including details of what action has been taken,” he said. Makgoba said the provincial standing committee resolved that, with immediate effect, all ordinations, elections or consecrations of ordained ministers would include the requirement for a police clearance certificate to be obtained from a verified agency. “From January 2019, we will progressively enforce the same rule for lay ministers, especially those involved in youth ministry and Sunday school teaching. “We are arranging training for the bishops at the next meeting of our Synod of Bishops, and have asked each diocese to ensure that its teams also receive training in how best to respond to complaints,” he said. The Catholic Archdiocese of Cape Town said it had a similar vetting process. Archbishop Stephen Brislin said the priests undergo psychiatric evaluation and extensive interviews by the church's professional conduct committee. He said before ordination the priest are also to provide recommendation letters from parishes. “For all those who work with children, such as priests, deacons and Sunday school teachers, a police clearance certificate is needed. “We have been deeply ashamed at what has happened in our churches and we understand the feeling of victims and their families, which is why we have acted,” said Brislin. New Apostolic Church spokesperson, apostle Robert Worship, said the church had a code of conduct in place “and we continue renewing it as the need arises. Sexual abuse and harassment are taken very seriously by the church as it erodes the very foundations of being a Christian,” he said. Claremont Mosque’s Imam Rashied Omar said the Muslim religion was different because mosques were responsible for the appointment of their own imams. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus