Kidrogen spokesperson Leah Eckles said they would be addressing the stance on the strike and the issues surrounding this illegal strike. The strike has entered its second week. Workers protested outside the Cape Town Civic Centre on Monday, demanding to be “in-sourced” by the municipality. One of the drivers, Patrick Mabindisa said: “We are subjected to unfair labour practices in the MyCiTi project. “We want fairness like everyone else.” A MyCiTi bus cashier, who asked not to be named, said she started working for the company in 2013 and was never given an increase. “We earn different amounts as cashiers even though we do the same job,” she added. Some workers said this strike was not only for bus drivers as reported, but it also included marshals, “ambassadors” and security guards. Mayco member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said criminal charges were laid yesterday, against the strikers interfering with the service in breach of the court order, “some services were operating as per schedule, but others were still not operational”. This follows after the City of Cape Town was granted a court interdict against MyCiTi bus drivers on Thursday preventing them from intimidating, harassing or assaulting MyCiTi passengers and staff, and preventing them from damaging stations, depots or buses, and gathering at, or coming closer than 100m to MyCiTi stations, depots or buses. On the interdict, Herron said: “We trust the strikers will abide by the order and will stop intimidating and threatening their colleagues who are not participating in the wildcat strike that has been orchestrated by the EFF.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He said he had been available all week to address the striking workers, but on the condition that this engagement happened through their legitimate representatives, namely the unions who represent the employees in the workplace. “I will not engage with striking workers through the EFF, who are desperate to establish themselves as brokers in an environment where they do not belong and where they have no legitimate mandate.” EFF secretary Banzi Dambuza said his party was supporting MyCiTi workers. “(The) EFF came in to show support. “We were requested by them and we also saw it fit to help them” National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) secretary Vuyo Lufele said they were supposed to be meeting with the City and MyCiTi bus-operating companies yesterday, but the meeting was postponed. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus