Kidrogen chief executive Andile Peter said that based on the evidence they had, they would take “drastic measures” against all employees who participated in the strike. “These measures will be based on investigation. Anyone found guilty will be fired,” Peter said. He added that they would hire a private security company, and that they would make sure that their services resumed for commuters. He said the company had lost R10million due to the unprotected “wildcat” strike. “We are not going to watch our company collapse like that. We will protect this company,” Peter said. “We pay our drivers very well, that is why they have quality cars and are able to open accounts. We do not know what they want now.” Peter said he believed the strike was “black-on-black violence”, and that he was tempted to say it was caused by the former bus companies. He condemned all political parties that joined the strike, saying: “Political parties must not use such platforms for political agendas.” This after the EFF aligned themselves with the striking workers. Meanwhile, a MyCiTi bus has been attacked in Khayelitsha. City law enforcement director Robbie Roberts confirmed the reports, and said petrol bombs had been thrown at a bus while it was at the MyCiTi bus station in Kuyasa on Monday. “The City of Cape Town was granted a court interdict against MyCiTi bus drivers on Thursday, preventing them from intimidating, harassing or assaulting MyCiTi passengers and staff, and preventing them from damaging stations, depots or buses, and gathering at, or coming closer than, 100m to MyCiTi stations, depots or buses,” Roberts said. Mayco member Brett Herron said that despite the court order, strikers had continued their attacks on the service, its personnel, passengers, and assets. “Those employees who are working to ensure our residents can get to work or school and are being intimidated, assaulted, attacked and prevented from operating the MyCiTi service,” said Herron. He added that since the court order had been granted, the strikers had intensified their attacks. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus