The society has embarked on a Mass Pet Microchipping Drive before Guy Fawkes on November5. The drive is aimed at all pet owners and started last week on Monday. It will end on Sunday, November4, with the aim of microchipping 400 pets. The society has partnered with Identipet, offering the microchips at a significantly discounted rate, allowing it to offer the service at R100 per pet. The microchip is approximately the size of a grain of rice, and is a quick and painless procedure suitable for all pets, not only cats and dogs. The device is professionally inserted by experienced and qualified para-veterinary personal at the society’s premises in Papkuilsvlei Road in Philippi. The society’s head of communications and resource development, Allan Perrins, said: “The campaign was borne out of a necessity to do something proactive to help make the lost and found process more efficient and effective, because too many stray animals, especially cats and dogs (without any means of identification) are admitted into our care daily (with an exponential increase over Guy Fawkes and New Year). “This makes the process of reuniting lost pets with their owners very difficult and unnecessarily complicated. “Kennel space is always at a premium and our occupancy levels rarely drop below 95%, leaving very little wiggle room for any sudden influxes. We despise fireworks and the senseless need to celebrate Guy Fawkes. It is an annual blot on our beautiful country’s event landscape,” he said. Since the start of the year, 120 dogs and 33 cats have been admitted to the society as strays. Only 28 of the dogs, and none of the cats, were claimed. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The society’s kennel manager, Christine Leonard, said around 80% of all the strays admitted came from loving homes and had owners who were looking for them. Leonard said that all this heartache and trauma could be avoided if owners had microchips implanted into their pets. She asked that people take stray animals to the animal shelter closest to where they were found, as this increased the chances of their owners finding them. An example of such a stray is a brown-and-white pit bull found in Cassino Road, Plumstead, in May, which has been living in their kennels ever since. The dog appeared to be well cared for and had recently been sterilised when found because her stitches had not yet been removed. City Law Enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyson said: “The City’s law enforcement officers will be out in full force on Guy Fawkes day, and it is hoped that people obey the rules in terms of detonating fireworks at designated sites.” * For more information, contact Jaque le Roux or Tamerin Esterhuyse at 021 692 2626 or 082 601 1761, or email admin@awscape.org.za. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus