“After a tough year for the industry, we as partners are ready to tackle a new season with more drive and enthusiasm. The City of Cape Town’s role is to look to the future and create a globally competitive forward-looking Mother City,” Mayor Patricia De Lille said. “The City is here to enable the industry to thrive by making it easy for you to do business and obtain the required permits, providing the necessary infrastructure, and acting as a supportive catalyst for change.” The City has also acknowledged what challenging time year the film industry has gone through and what severe challenges they face, De Lille said that the city plans to elevate some of the challenges they face, “This financial year we introduced no tariff increases for the film industry and the City is committed to looking at all possibilities including a zero based tariff for the next two seasons. Another commitment is the City’s determination to unlock more locations to shoot. "This industry is not just about showbiz and glam, it is a key part of our economy as it has created many jobs for residents,” she said. Some of the challenges include a lack of transformation, red tape, and difficulty obtaining permission to film. The online portal is designed to showcase the city’s amazing locations, diverse talent pool and world-class infrastructure that contributes to a thriving and sustainable industry. It is expected to go live in mid-October. In 2016, the Cape Film Commission announced it was closing down after 15 years as a result of poor funding and support. The closure knocked the film industry, with about 3 000 members nationwide affected. The shutdown was mainly due to the Western Cape provincial government and the City of Cape Town cutting its grant funding and support to the organisation. Using stats of 2015, the City said the Cape Town film industry contributed about R3.5 billion to the local economy in 2015 and in the process created at least 10 000 direct and indirect job opportunities. The industry has experienced about a 40% downturn in the number of productions since the 2017 season, which was a sharp decline in about six months the City announced earlier this year. Publishing Editor from Callsheet Lance Gibbons said: “We are pleased about this. We held a two day workshop back in July and it was a great way for us to address the key issues facing our industry and the City has finally heard our cry. We hope that this will take us where we want to be in the next few years.” The launch of the platform coincides with the opening of the film and commercial season as the City gears up to host The Cape Town International Film Market and Festival 2018 which is expected to take place from 9 to 19 October at various venues across the V & A Waterfront. Over 80 feature films, 20 documentaries and 66 short films are expected to be screened. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus