The development was put on hold after the land was illegally occupied by more than 500 people. Nazeem Ebrahim, spokesperson for Oasis Crescent Property, which owns the land, said: “The company stands to lose millions through this. We obtained this land legally and we did it honestly. All we want is for someone to fairly compensate us for the work we put in rezoning the area.” The land, between the Philippi shopping centre and Better Life township has been occupied since January. “The reason we decided to develop the land into a shopping centre is because it will have massive economical benefit for the area. It’s a prime piece of land,” Ebrahim said. People living illegally on land in Philippi want the City to buy the land because it has become home to about 500 residents. Some residents have connected their homes to the electricity grid, and a communal tap to the City water supply network, without authorisation. It is now called Siyangena informal settlement. In March, Oasis Crescent Property obtained an order from the Western Cape High Court for the sheriff to remove the people, but they have resisted. The land is valued at R39million. There are also plans to develop a transport development depot. “All we want is for the City to fairly compensate us for this because someone has allowed these people to do this and the land is located perfectly,” Ebrahim said. Ebrahim said the company will engage with the City to assist these people. He said the company does not want to exercise the court order “Humanely, we know there is a massive housing crisis and where will these people go,” he said. However, the City said it will not engage in the issue of compensation. Mayoral committee member for informal settlements, water and waste services; and energy, Xanthea Limberg, said: “The City will not engage on the matter of compensation. In light of humanitarian concerns, however, the City will engage with the company to seek permission to provide services on the land, depending on available resources.” Limberg said it is not the City’s mandate to protect private land from illegal occupation. “It is the responsibility of the private landowner or SAPS. As such, no compensation will be considered,” she said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus 