These were some of the reactions to the provincial legislature’s standing committee on education’s adoption of the Education Amendment Bill which would pave the way for the selling and consuming of alcohol under strict regulations at events on school grounds. Progressive Principals Association president Rushda O’Shea said the legislation was a thorny issue. “We have many people out there who are against this legislation, but also those who want it. "Some principals in our association say that the sale (of alcohol) at events will bring in more revenue, while others are seriously worried about the message we are sending to the public to allow the sale of alcohol at schools. "It needs to be said that many more parents will attend events if there is alcohol for sale, but schools who do not want it can simply refuse it,” O’Shea said. She said the onus would be on the school management to ensure learners did not consume alcohol at schools. “The school management would have to ensure that there are enough mechanisms in place to ensure that no child drinks alcohol at events held on school premises. No one in their right mind will sell alcohol to learners,” she said. ANC spokesperson on education Theo Olivier said they maintain that the bill is irreconcilable with national education legislation that prohibits the possession and use of alcohol during any school activity - within or outside the premises. “The bill wants to make it lawful to consume and sell alcohol on and off school premises. This is an utter disgrace in a province where so many people suffer due to alcohol abuse and the socio-conditions it brings,” he said. DA MPL Lorraine Botha said in a statement: “The ANC and ACDP were not even prepared to consider any change to the current Western Cape Provincial School Education Act 12 of 1997. Both parties insisted on objecting to each and every single clause, without taking any consideration of any aspect of the bill. "This is indicative of the obstructive behaviour and attitude towards education for the poor in the Western Cape,” she said. Botha said the bill was a pro-poor piece of legislation. “Due to its transparent school governing body, finances are prudently managed and its professional staff development also provides psycho-social support for parents of learners. The creation of intervention support facilities will empower principals and teachers to have another mechanism to protect themselves and those learners who wish to learn. Learners with serious behavioural issues will now get another chance to manage their ways,” she said. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus